 
•	 Q4 2016 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Wave Systems Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Authentec Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 STEC, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Intuit Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Telefonica Brasil SA Earnings Conference Call (English) - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Rovi Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 athenahealth, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Lantronix, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 & Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Glu Mobile Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Lagardere SCA Sales Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Apple Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Apple Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Navarre Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Zagg Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Pc Mall Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Dolby Laboratories Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Microvision Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Glu Mobile Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Synchronoss Technologies Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Boston Properties Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Leapfrog Enterprises Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 HTC Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 CBL And Associates Properties Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Brightpoint Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Innodata Isogen Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Socket Mobile Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Taubman Centers Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Apple Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2007 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2006 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 05 Apple Quarterly Earnings Call - Final  
•	 Q3 05 Apple Quarterly Earnings Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2003 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2003 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q2 2003 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q1 2003 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q4 2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q3 2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q3 2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q2 2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  AAPL - Q2 2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q1 2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q4  2016 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,968 words
   PD
25 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated fourth-quarter FY16 earnings release conference call.

   TD
Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking first today is Apple CEO, Tim Cook; and he'll be followed by CFO, Luca Maestri. After that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, and future business outlook. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2015, the Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of FY16, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC.: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. We're in the middle of a very busy season for Apple, and on Thursday of this week, we're holding another event here on the Apple campus. All of us are excited, and we think our customers are going to love these latest innovations.

Our results for the September quarter were very strong. We generated $46.9 billion in revenue in the quarter, toward the high end of our guidance range. Gross margin was 38%, at the very top of our range.

We sold 45.5 million iPhones, reflecting continued improvement in year-over-year performance compared to the last two quarters as we forecasted in January. IPhone sales were up year-over-year in 33 of our top 40 markets. As you know, iPhone customers are the most satisfied and loyal customers in the world and FY16 saw more customers switch from Android to iPhone than ever before.

This is due to the superior customer experience we deliver with our products, and it's something no other Company can match. We had a record-setting quarter for services with revenue growth accelerating to 24%, reaching $6.3 billion.

App store revenue continued to skyrocket while music revenue grew by 22% thanks to the growing popularity of Apple music. In fact, JD Power recently announced that Apple music enjoys the highest customer satisfaction rating in the streaming music market.

Earlier this month, I visited Japan where Apple Pay went live yesterday. Japanese customers are already in the habit of making contactless payments where they commute, dine, and shop, so we expect a strong response and rapid adoption of Apple Pay. Around the world, we're seeing very strong growth in transaction volume through Apple Pay, which also launched in Russia and New Zealand this month and is coming to Spain in the next few months.

Apple Pay transactions were up nearly 500% year on year for the September quarter. In fact, we completed more transactions in the month of September than we did across all of FY15.

And, with Apple Pay support now built into Safari, hundreds of thousands of websites are bringing Apple Pay to their customers. Our major partners tell us that Apple Pay shows the highest conversion rate of any digital wallet.

We remain very confident about the future of our services business, given the unmatched level of engagement, satisfaction, and loyalty of our growing installed base. We have almost doubled the size of our services revenue in the last four years, and as we've said before, we expect it to be the size of a Fortune 100 Company in FY17. As for our newest products, we're thrilled with the customer response to iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 plus.

These are the best iPhones we've ever made, with breakthrough camera systems, immersive stereo speakers, and the best iPhone performance and battery life ever, thanks to the custom design Apple A10 Fusion [chip]. They feature the brightest, most colorful iPhone displays to date and come in gorgeous new finishes. Demand continues to outstrip supply, but we're working very hard to get them into customers' hands as quickly as possible.

We're also off to a great start with Apple Watch Series 2, the next generation of the world's most popular smart watch, packed with new features including built-in GPS, water resistance, a dramatically brighter display, and a powerful dual core processor. Individuals and businesses alike are recognizing the potential of Apple Watch to help people stay healthy, motivated, and connected.

One recent example is Aetna which has announced a new initiative to revolutionize its members' health experience by subsidizing Apple Watch for individual customers and select large employers. In addition, Aetna is also providing Apple Watch to nearly 50,000 of its own employees to encourage them to live a healthier day.

We've just rolled out new versions of iOS, Mac OS, and Watch OS, and customers are loving the many great new features including Siri on the Mac, enhanced health and fitness capabilities for Apple Watch, and a delightful new way to experience your photos on iOS with a feature we call memories. We've made massive advances in messages, making them more expressive and fun than ever with powerful animations, invisible ink, and handwritten notes. We're seeing great offerings from developers in the all-new App store for messages, and there has been a marked increase in our monthly active users.

One of the great new features of iOS 10 is the home app which is making home automation easy to set up and intuitive to use. Customers can easily set up and securely control all their home kit accessories from lights and cameras to garage doors and air conditioners all from their favorite iOS devices. We expect over 100 home kit compatible products to be on the market by the end of this year, all reviewed and approved by Apple, to help ensure customers' security when using them.

Our Apple stores are wonderful places to discover and learn about these great products for the connected home. With our latest operating systems, machine learning is making our products and services smarter, more intuitive, and even more personal. We've been using these technologies for years to create better user experiences, and we've also been investing heavily, both through R&D and acquisitions.

Today, machine learning drives improvements in countless features across our products. It enables the proactive features in iOS 10 which offer suggestions on which app you might want to use or which contacts you might want to include in an e-mail. Our camera and photo software uses advanced face recognition to help you take better pictures and object and scene recognition to make them easier to sort and find.

Machine learning makes the fitness features of Apple Watch more accurate and even helps extend battery life across our products. Machine learning continually helps Siri get even smarter in areas such as understanding natural language. We've extended Siri to work in many new ways by opening it to developers, and most recently, by making Siri available to Mac users in Mac OS Sierra.

We're already seeing great momentum in just the first few weeks from developers leveraging the Siri and speech APIs, and we're very happy with the engagement it's driving with Siri. Looking ahead, we're seeing some very exciting developments in India. Reliance Jio is rolling out a first-of-its-kind, all-IP network in India with 4G coverage in 18,000 cities and 200,000 villages across the country.

They're offering a free year of service to purchasers of new iPhones, and we're partnering with them to ensure great iPhone performance on their network. Our iPhone sales in India were up over 50% in FY16 compared to the prior year, and we believe we're just beginning to scratch the surface of this large and growing market opportunity.

We're also very happy with the progress of our enterprise market initiatives, which continue to expand. Just last month, we announced a partnership with Deloitte to help companies quickly and easily transform the way they work by maximizing the power, ease of use, and security of the iOS platform. Deloitte is creating a unique Apple practice with over 5,000 strategic advisors focused on helping businesses transform work in functions across the enterprise.

We're also collaborating on the development of Enterprise Next, a new Deloitte consulting service designed to help clients across more than 20 industries take full advantage of the iOS ecosystem and quickly develop custom solutions through rapid prototyping. As we close the books on another incredible year, I'd like to thank our talented employees for their hard work and passion for making the best products in the world, our amazing developer community for their relentless creativity, and our wonderful customers, business partners, and shareholders for their loyalty and support.

Now, I'll hand it over to Luca to share more details on the September quarter.

LUCA MAESTRI, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon everyone.

Revenue for the September quarter was $46.9 billion, towards the high end of our guidance range. Our revenue grew very strong in many emerging markets including Russia, Turkey, the Middle East, Thailand, and Vietnam. We continue to see solid growth in Japan and in Latin America.

Gross margin was 38%, at the top of our guidance range, thanks to favorable cost performance. Operating margin was 25.1% of revenue, and net income was $9 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $1.67, and cash flow from operations was $16.1 billion which is a new record for the September quarter.

For details by product, I will start with iPhone. We sold 45.5 million iPhones in the quarter, thanks to the very successful launch of iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 plus, and continued strong demand for other iPhones. Including 2.7 million iPhones that were in transit at the end of the quarter, we increased iPhone channel inventory by 2.5 million units, and we exited the quarter well below our five- to seven-week target range of channel inventory.

We experienced strong iPhone growth in many markets around the world, including Canada, Latin America, Western Europe, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, India, and South Asia. IPhone sales in Greater China declined during the quarter, but the initial customer response to iPhone 7 and 7 plus gives us confidence that our December quarter performance in China will be significantly better on a year-over-year basis than our September-quarter results, even as we lap the all-time record period from a year ago.

Worldwide demand for iPhone 7 and 7 plus has significantly outpaced supply, particularly on iPhone 7 plus. And, we're working very hard to get the new iPhones into the hands of our customers as quickly as possible.

IPhone ASP increased to $619 in the September quarter which was above our expectations. That's up from $595 in the June quarter when we launched iPhone SE, and we had a significant channel inventory reduction. We expect iPhone ASP to increase markedly on a sequential basis to a level similar to our ASP in the December quarter last year.

Customer interest and satisfaction with iPhone remains extremely strong. In the US, for instance, the latest survey fielded by 451 Research found that among consumers planning to purchase a smartphone within 90 days, 65% plan to purchase iPhone, with the current iPhone owners reporting a 97% customer satisfaction rating. Among corporate smartphone buyers, the latest survey measures a 95% iPhone customer satisfaction rating and found that of those planning to purchase smartphones in the December quarter, 79% plan to purchase iPhone.

Turning to services, we generated an all-time record $6.3 billion in revenue with an increase of 24% over a year ago. The App store growth rate has now accelerated for five consecutive quarters reaching 43% in the September quarter. The App store remains the preferred destination for both customers and developers.

According to App Annie, we generated 100% more global revenue than Google Play in the September quarter. In addition to the great performance from Apps, we saw strong, double-digit revenue growth in several other service categories, and Apple Pay transaction volume has grown dramatically as Tim mentioned. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac.

We sold 4.9 million Macs, facing a difficult year-over-year compare, given the launch of new Macs in the spring of 2015. Despite this, our Mac installed base reached a new all-time high at the end of the September quarter, and we'll have some exciting news to share with current and future Mac owners very soon. We ended the quarter below our four- to five-week target range for Mac channel inventory.

Turning to iPad, revenue was flat compared to last year. iPad ASP was $459, $26 higher than a year ago, with the increase driven by the new iPad Pro line. We sold 9.3 million iPads, and we reduced channel inventory by about 80,000 units, exiting the quarter below our five- to seven-week target range.

We continue to be highly successful both in terms of market share and customer metrics in the segments of the tablet market where we compete. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad gained share in the US tablet market in the September quarter and had 82% share of tablets priced above $200. And, in August, 451 Research measured a 96% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad mini, 95% rate for iPad Air, and a 93% rate for iPad Pro.

Among US consumers planning to purchase a tablet within the next six months, 73% plan to purchase an iPad, more than eight times the purchase intention rate of the next highest brand measured with iPad Pro once again the top choice for planned purchases. Corporate buyers reported a 94% satisfaction rate for iPad and a purchase intent of 68% for the December quarter.

In the enterprise market, we're seeing some great examples of iPad and Mac deployment. Our mobility partner program continues to grow stronger with over 120 partners around the world offering tailored solutions to businesses of all sizes. Revel Systems, a leading iPad point-of-sale solution partner, recently announced a global agreement with Shell retail to implement Revel's iPad-based, POS system services at 34,000 Shell locations worldwide including support for Apple Pay in countries where Apple Pay is available.

IBM has just released new data on the great results of its Mac rollout. With more employees choosing Mac than ever before, there are now more than 90,000 Macs across the organization in addition to 48,000 iPads and 81,000 iPhones. IBM reports that PCs are three times the cost to manage, drive twice the number of support calls, and are five times more likely to require a follow-up appointment to resolve an issue than Macs.

Thanks to much lower support cost and significantly higher residual value, the Company is saving as much as $535 per computer when comparing the total cost of Mac ownership to a PC over a [four]-year life cycle. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $237.6 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $6.1 billion.

$216 billion of this cash, or 91% of the total, was outside the United States. We issued $7 billion of debt in July, leaving us with $79 billion in term debt at the end of the quarter. We returned over $9 billion to investors during the September quarter as follows.

We paid $3.1 billion in dividends and equivalents. We spent $3 billion on repurchases of 28.6 million Apple shares through open-market transactions, and we launched a new $3 billion ASR resulting in initial delivery and retirement of 22.5 million shares. We also completed our seventh accelerated share repurchase program, retiring an additional 12.3 million shares. So, total buyback activity during the quarter reduced our share count by 1.5%.

We have now completed $186 billion of our current $250 billion capital return program including $133 billion in share repurchases. During the September quarter, we also completed four acquisitions and incurred $3.6 billion in capital expenditures. Our total CapEx for the year was $12.8 billion.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%, slightly higher than the 25.5% we guided to because of a different geographic mix of earnings relative to our original expectations. Our tax rate for the full fiscal year was 25.6%.

As we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $76 billion and $78 billion. This represents a return to growth over the all-time revenue record set in the December quarter a year ago.

We expect gross margin to be between 38% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $6.9 billion and $7 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $400 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26%.

Also, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.57 per share of common stock payable on November 10, 2016, to shareholders of record as of November 7, 2016. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: We ask that you limit yourself to one, one-part question and one follow-up. May we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

First we'll hear from Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon and congratulations. Tim, now that we're a month in the iPhone 7, are you seeing anything measurable in terms of the growing trend of annual upgrades? Second is, historically in terms of new product categories, you have always looked for you unique advantage before getting into a segment. And, I'm curious about the car. There are a lot of rumors out there and would like your perspective on how you think about an advantage that Apple could add in the auto space?

TIM COOK: In terms of iPhone 7, Gene, the carriers that had upgrade plans, the information that we have from them is that the demand is very robust. But, from a worldwide point of view, the truth is that demand is outstripping supply in the vast majority of places, particularly on the iPhone 7 Plus. And so, it's -- we're in a situation at the moment, it's difficult in the early weeks to be able to differentiate. But, on an anecdotal basis, it's clear the upgrade programs are a win.

I can't speak about rumors, but as you know, we look for ways that we can improve the experience and the customers' experience on different sets of products, and we're always looking at new things. The car space, in general, is an area that it's clear that there's a lot of technologies that will either become available or will be able to revolutionize the car experience. So, it's interesting from that point of view, but certainly nothing to announce today.

GENE MUNSTER: Just one quick follow-up in terms of the supply. Do you think we'll be at equilibrium by the end of the quarter, for iPhone supply?

TIM COOK: It's hard to say. I believe that on iPhone 7, we will. On iPhone 7 Plus, I'm not sure. I wouldn't say yes at this point because the underlying demand looks extremely strong on both products, but particularly on the iPhone 7 Plus versus our forecast going into the product launch.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Can we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good afternoon. Luca, can you help us understand what's embedded in revenue guidance for the extra week as well as any rebuilding of channel inventory, given all the major products are running below target. Just trying to get at whether you see revenue, and in particular, iPhone growth year on year on more of a sell-out basis when you adjust for those two factors. And then, I have a follow-up.

LUCA MAESTRI: Sure. Let me say a few things on the 14th week and revenue outlook for the December quarter. Keep in mind that the December quarter a year ago for us was an all-time quarterly revenue record.

We think we can grow this year. As Tim said, the interest from customers on iPhone 7 and 7 Plus is very strong. The strength of our services business, you've seen we've grown 24% in September. We think we can continue to grow very well into the December quarter.

You mentioned the 14th week and the few extra days do help us this quarter, but I think it's important to keep in mind that there are other factors that go and offset these extra few days. As you know, the launch timing of the new iPhone is different this year. We had the first nine days of sales this year hit Q4. There were only two days last year. So, the cadence has moved more towards Q4 this year versus Q1 last year. As you know, we increased iPhone channel inventory by 3.3 million units in the first quarter of 2016.

As Tim said, we are very supply-constrained on iPhone 7 Plus this year. We are simply more supply-constrained this year than we were a year ago. And then, keep in mind there were a couple of things that affected compare as well, which is the fact that a year ago we had an award for a patent infringement of $548 million which is obviously a one-off item that is not going to repeat this year. And, also, the foreign exchange environment remains difficult, and we expect FX to be about $650 million headwind on a year-over-year basis into the December quarter.

So, I hope that gives you a bit of a sense that when you take into account all these factors, we believe that this is a good guidance for the December quarter.

KATY HUBERTY: That's great color. Thank you for that. Follow-up for Tim. What should we read into the fact that R&D has more than doubled over the past three years, while sales growth was one-fifth of that. Are R&D investments just less efficient than they were in the Company's history? Or, should we think about that as incremental spend for products that haven't yet come to market?

TIM COOK: There's clearly some amount of R&D that are on products that today are in the development phase that have not reached the market. And so, that's a part of it.

We feel really great about the things that we've got. We've also put a lot of emphasis on our services business as well and on making the ecosystem even better. And so, we're very much -- we're confidently investing in the future, and that's the reason you see the R&D spend increasing.

KATY HUBERTY: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: From Cross Research, Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. A couple of questions. The first, Tim, can you talk a bit more about China? Just how you're thinking about it? Where you're seeing pressure? I know you mentioned that you expect to see a significant rebound during the first quarter. But, what are your customers telling you about the demand in China?

TIM COOK: It's a good question, Shannon. So, to back up from our results for the quarter, the 90-day clock and look at the full year of 2016. We were down 17% compared to the FY15 which was up 84% from the previous year. So, if you look at 2014 to 2016, the revenue grew 52%, and the CAGR was 23% which really are pretty good results.

Also, as you probably know, the FY16 performance was hurt by the devaluation of the currency which affected it about 3%. So, the underlying business performance was 14% down. And so, why was it down? There's lots of reasons, but the largest one in our view is that when you look at what happened in 2015 in China, we had a surge of upgraders that came into the market for the iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, and the upgrade rate increased relatively more in Greater China than elsewhere around the world.

And so, when that upgrade rate in FY16 returned to a more normal upgrade rate, which would be akin to what we saw with the iPhone 5S [as a point], it had further to fall. So, that's the main reason in our view that you see a difference.

Now, that spun or created another issue for us because we didn't forecast that accurately. So, in Q1 of last year, we put in too much channel inventory and had been resetting the channel inventory over the few quarters that came beyond it or came after it. So, those two issues, which really the main one is really the first one and the second one was a symptom of it, are in our views the main issue.

Now, looking forward, the response to the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus has been very positive. It's very hard to gauge demand, as you know, when you're selling everything you're making. And so, we'll find out more through the quarter, but we're confident enough to give you guidance that we're returning to growth this quarter which obviously feels very good for us.

And, from a longer term point of view, out of the 90-day clocks and so forth, we are very bullish on China. We continue to see a middle class that is booming there. There might be some sort of a new normal in the economy, but a new normal there is still a good growth rate. And so, with the number of middle class -- people growing into the middle class and the LTE adoption rate being still fairly low, around 45%, 50% or so, then I think we continue to have a really good opportunity there. And so, we continue to focus significantly in China.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. Thank you. And then, can you talk a bit about acquisitions. I don't mean like the smaller ones that you've done at a normal cadence, but there was clearly a fairly large one announced at least this week in the content world. And, especially if you find a way to have [cash] repatriation of some of the cash at a low tax rate possibly with the next administration. So, just if you can give an overall view of how you think about acquisitions that might be a little bit larger than normal?

TIM COOK: We're open to acquisitions of any size that are of strategic value where we can deliver better products to our customers and innovate more. And so, we look at a whole variety of companies, and based on that, we choose whether to move forward or not. But, we're definitely open, and we definitely look.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go to Toni Sacconaghi with Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Yes, thank you. I have a question and a follow-up, please. I guess a cynic could say Apple is benefiting from an extra week this quarter and is benefiting from Samsung being in complete disarray. And yet, from your guidance, it's unclear that iPhone unit growth will be up or certainly not up more than low single digits implied from your guidance. And, I appreciate some of the issues around channel inventory build and the timing of the launch.

But, if I just stand back from that and say you have terrific new products. Your major competitor is laying down. You have an enormous -- you have a significant contribution from an extra week, arguably, 7% or 8%, and yet the iPhone growth is sort of flattish. What does that really say about how investors should think about iPhone on a sustained basis growing forward? And, is it reasonable to think that this is an ongoing, growing business for the Company?

LUCA MAESTRI: Toni, let me take this one. I think you mentioned a number of the things that are affecting us in the December quarter, and I went through them with Katy just a few minutes ago.

You're right. We've got an extra few days. You know very well the launch timing is different. You know that we increased iPhone channel inventory by 3.3 million units a year ago. I mentioned two issues that affect us, the one-timer from a year ago that you obviously need to exclude from the compare and the FX that is the reality of our business right now.

But, maybe the most important element of this is the fact that we are supply-constrained on 7 and 7 Plus. And so, when you talk about other competitors, it's not particularly relevant to us right now because we are selling everything that we can produce. And so, when we look at all these things in its totality, we think that for the total Company, of course, we believe that revenue is going to grow. You know that we don't get into specific product from a unit standpoint giving guidance. And so, we feel very confident about the trajectory for the Company and for iPhone going forward.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Tim, if I could ask you one, please. You've talked in the past about television being an area of intense interest. I was wondering if you could reaffirm that statement? Is that still the case?

And then, additionally, given what's happening with acquisitions, how broadly you think about the role of content? Apple has started creating on a very limited scale some of its own content, and whether you think content creation and ownership is important to Apple? Or, whether Apple ultimately sees its place in the value chain as being more around ecosystem and distribution?

TIM COOK: I would confirm that television has intense interest with me and many other people here. In terms of owning content and creating content, we have started with focusing on some original content as you point out. We've got a few things going there that we talked about. And, I think it's a great opportunity for us, both from a creation point of view and an ownership point of view. And so, it is an area that we're focused on.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Toni. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: From Goldman Sachs, Simona Jankowski.

SIMONA JANKOWSKI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. I have a question for Luca, and then one for Tim as well. Luca, I wanted to dig into the services business a bit more. As you pointed out, it accelerated again to 24%. How does that compare to the pace of growth of the installed base, just to help us decouple how much of it is consumption-driven on a per-user basis versus the base as a whole?

LUCA MAESTRI: Simona, the installed base number is something that we talk about periodically. Last time we talked about it was in the January call. It is growing. Our installed base is growing very well which is very important for us. It's growing on all major products, and it's growing, of course, in total.

When you look at our services revenue, the growth of the services revenues has been accelerating during the course of the year. During a period when, as you know, our revenue came down slightly. So, what that means in practice is that what we are seeing with our customers that consume our services is that the people that are actually taking advantage of our services, over time, they tend to spend more and more on our services.

We've got customers who are very engaged with our products. They're very loyal, and so you see this upward trajectory of our services business. It's not only with the App store but several categories that are growing very well for us. Tim mentioned Apple Music, but we've got other parts of the business that continue to do well. Even as I said, during a period of time when our sales have come down a bit.

SIMONA JANKOWSKI: Thank you. And then, Tim, we've seen an increasing focus on artificial intelligence both in smartphones like the new Pixel from Google, but also in some of the home assistants like the Amazon Echo. And, you have obviously had Siri for a while as well. But, I just am curious how you think about balancing AI with your focus on privacy. Also, how important it is to have a dedicated home assistant versus just having the phone as the home assistant?

TIM COOK: I think that, to answer your second question first, I think that most people would like an assistant with them all the time. And, we live in a mobile society. People are constantly moving from home to work and to other things that they may be doing. And so, the advantage of having an assistant on your phone is it's with you all the time. That doesn't say that there's not a nice market for a home one. I'm not making that point.

I'm just saying on a balanced point of view I think the usage of one on the phone will likely be much greater. In fact, you can just look at Siri today, and this is now accelerating with iOS 10 and the Mac. But, we've been getting 2 billion requests a week for Siri.

And so, it's very large, and to the best of our knowledge, we've shipped more assisted, enabled devices than probably anyone out there. Our focus is on this worldwide. And so, it's not only a US focus, but we want to deliver a great experience around the world and deliver globally. So, we've put a lot of the energy into doing that.

In terms of the balance between privacy and AI, this is a long conversation. But, at a high level, I think it's a false tradeoff that people would like you to believe that you have to give up privacy in order to have AI do something for you. We don't buy that. It may take a different kind of work. It might take more thinking. But, I don't think we should throw our privacy away.

It's like the age-old argument about privacy versus security. We should have both. It shouldn't be making a choice. And so, that at a high level is how we see it.

SIMONA JANKOWSKI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Simona. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go to Steve Milunovich with UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you very much. Luca, I wanted to ask you about the total deferred revenue, which was down about $1.3 billion in June, and down I think another $400 million in September. Those are rather large declines even given the fact that your units are coming down, and you had the accounting change back in September. Could you talk about some of the drivers of that, and what you might expect going forward?

LUCA MAESTRI: Steve, you mentioned by far the largest driver. The largest driver is the fact that we made the change, an accounting change to our ESPs exactly a year ago. So, we are lapping the year where you see the effect. I think you're not going to see the same thing going forward.

And then, we tend to defer some revenue on some other categories like, for example, gift cards or some AppleCare. But, in general, by far the largest element is the change in ESPs. I don't think you're going to see the same impact going forward.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. Thank you. And then Tim, some investors are antsy that Apple has not acquired new profit pools or introduced a financially material new product in recent years. The question is, A, does Apple today have a grand strategy for what you want to do? I know you won't tell us what it is. But, do you know what you want to do over the next three to maybe five years? Or, is it more a read the market and quickly react?

B, do you have any sense, we're kind of in a gap period where the technology and arguably what we've called the next job to be done haven't yet aligned? So, maybe in a couple years, we will see this flurry of new products, and it will sort of match what people want to do but it's not quite here yet?

TIM COOK: We have the strongest pipeline that we've ever had, and we're really confident about the things in it. But, as usual, we're not going to talk about what's in it.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: But, in terms of your approach, I guess, to new products. Do you have a strong sense of where technology is going? Where you're going to play? Or, is it still enough up in the air that you're willing to react fairly quickly which arguably your organization allows you to do for the size of the Company you are.

TIM COOK: We have a strong sense of where things go, and we're very agile to shift as we need to.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Can we are have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: From Bank of America, Wamsi Mohan.

WAMSI MOHAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. So, Tim and Luca, you saw that you could raise the ASP on the iPhone 7 Plus by $20, and you're completely sold out. So, clearly this device plays a central role in our lives, so much that owners probably look at that incremental cost as a great tradeoff to get the best device out there.

As you see more and more features being added into iPhones, do you conceptually expect that you're anywhere close to the point where raising ASPs further would be net-disruptive to demand? Or, do you see more room to raise ASPs over time as you add incremental features. And, I have a follow-up.

TIM COOK: With the iPhone 7 Plus, we've put an incredible amount of innovation into the camera and the overall photo experience, and customers are obviously using that and have discovered that they love it. So, we're getting an incredible amount of feedback there. We also get incredible feedback on the iPhone 7.

But, the mix that we projected on an iPhone 7 Plus is short of what the reality is. So, we are chasing supply there. In terms of the ASP, the way we think about it is we want to charge a fair price. And so, we don't want to charge more than that, and we think it's worth being fair. And so, that's how we look at it.

LUCA MAESTRI: If I can add, Wamsi, keep in mind that in a lot of countries around the world the reality is that our customers have seen some significant price increases because of the FX situation, right. And, that's something that we need to keep in mind as well.

WAMSI MOHAN: Great. Thanks for the clarification. And, Tim, this year, we saw carrier incentives come back to force, post the launch of the iPhone 7, 7 Plus. Two years ago, there was a giant upgrade cycle from the iPhone 6, 6 Plus.

Do you think every couple of years we are likely to see carrier incentives come back into play given worries around customer churn? Thereby, making the phone even more affordable? Thanks.

TIM COOK: We clearly saw that this year. There's a lot of competition for customers in the US which I think is the market that you're talking about. Whether that will happen every two years, I don't know. But, I suspect that any time there are large numbers of customers that have a phone that's in that two-year kind of range that it tends to be a sweet spot, and I think you probably will see a lot of people trying to recruit those customers.

WAMSI MOHAN: Thanks, Tim.

TIM COOK: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you. Can we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jim Suva with Citi.

JIM SUVA, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you very much. A strategy question for Tim and then more of a financial question for Luca. Tim, you had mentioned in your prepared comments a little bit about India, and we've been doing a lot of work talking about the opportunities in India. And, we get a lot of pushback talking about disposable income metrics and lots of things like that, yet the population being so large.

Can you talk a little about, do you see that India could at some point be as [big] of an opportunity as China, and it appears that the legal rules have prevented you from going in a lot. But, it looks like that's changing. Can you give us a little more clarity on India?

And then, Tim, for the clarification questions. Is it fair to say that the OpEx has a disproportionate more expense side with the 14th week that we should think of maybe as we go forward, that we shouldn't expect the OpEx to be chugging along at that high rate? Or, is it just kind of the rate of investing that you're going? Thank you very much, gentlemen.

TIM COOK: Thanks for the question. I'll let Luca talk about the OpEx piece of it. On India, I think it's important to look not only at per-capita income, which may be what you're looking at, but sort of look at the number of people that are or will move into the middle class over the next decade. And, the age of the population, if you look at India, almost 50% of the population is under 25. So, you have a very, very young population. The smartphone has not done as well in India in general.

However, one of the key reasons for that is the infrastructure hasn't been there. But, this year, or this year and next year, there are enormous investments going in on 4G, and we couldn't be more excited about that because it really takes a great network working with iPhones to produce that great experience for people.

And so, I see a lot of the factors moving in the right direction there. I also think the government is much more focused on the infrastructure and on creating jobs, which is fantastic, because you really need the infrastructure and the technology to do that.

Will it be as big as China? I think it's clear that the population of India will exceed China sometime in the -- probably the next decade or so, maybe less than that. I think it will take longer for the GDP to rival it.

But, that's not critical for us to have a great success there. The truth is, there's going to be a lot of people there and a lot of people in the middle class that will really want a smartphone. And, I think we can compete well for some percentage of those. And, given our starting point, even though we've been growing a lot, there's a lot of headroom there in our mind. And so, we're working very hard to realize that opportunity.

LUCA MAESTRI: And, Jim, on OpEx, our approach to OpEx is quite clear and quite simple. We want to continue to invest in the business in all the areas where we think it's critical for us to invest.

So, you see that we make significant investments in R&D. You've seen the growth rates over the last couple of years. We are making important investments in data centers because we want to support our services business. We continue to open retail stores around the world. We continue to invest in marketing and advertising.

At the same time, we want to continue to be efficient and lean. It's something that we've done very well over the years. We want to continue to do that. So, what you've seen, for example, in FY16, you've seen investments in R&D growing at 25% and then our SG&A expenses to be about flat. This is kind of the approach that we want to take and continue to take going forward.

If you step back for a second and you look at our implied guidance for the December quarter, we've got an expense-to-revenue ratio of 9%. This is extremely competitive in our industry, and I would I say in general. So, we want to continue to have this balance. Make the right investments and remain efficient.

JIM SUVA: Thank you and congratulations, and thanks for the details, gentlemen.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Jim. Can we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go to Rod Hall with JPMorgan.

ROD HALL, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi. Thanks for the question. I had one for Luca and then a follow-up for Tim. So, Luca, I wanted to ask about the gross margin guidance? I think that the Street and we were expecting something a little bit higher, and I guess that's about 50 basis points lower. The Street -- it was 70 basis points lower. I'm just curious, do you think that people are mis-modeling that? Or, is there something going on with pricing or mix there that you could provide us more color on? That's my first question.

LUCA MAESTRI: Rod, let me give you some details both on a sequential basis, and I'll give you also something on a year-over-year basis because maybe that's where the disconnect comes from looking at last year's gross margins in the December quarter.

On a sequential basis, we're essentially guiding to some improvement in gross margins. We had 38% both in the June quarter and in the September quarter. We're guiding slightly higher for the December quarter because on the positive we're going to have, of course, better leverage and the mix in the December quarter tends to be better. But, we need to keep into account the fact that these positives are going to be partially offset by the cost structures of the new products that we are launching now, and we launched already a few during the September quarter and that will have an impact on our December-quarter results.

On a year-over-year basis, keep in mind that last year we did in Q1 we did 40%, around 40%, 41%. But, there's a couple of things that I think need to be considered before doing a year-over-year compare. And, it's a fact that last year we had this award for a patent infringement of $548 million that is at the gross margin level is 40 Bps.

And then, we've got the FX situation which I mentioned before which is worth another 60, 70 Bps. And so, you're left with less than 100 basis points deterioration on a year-over-year basis where, again, we have the reality of new cost structures into our products.

It is very, very important, I think, for investors to understand that what's happened during the last two years. During the last two years the US dollar has appreciated by 15% over the basket of currencies where we do business. And, we are a Company that generates two-thirds of our revenues outside the United States. 15% appreciation of the US dollar. So, on a year-over-year basis, just 2016 over 2015, was 340 Bps impact from foreign exchange.

This is something that we have offset almost entirely through a number of initiatives going from pricing actions to cost initiatives to our hedging program. But, at some point, the strong dollar becomes the new normal, and we need to work with that. And, I think over the years, we have made very good tradeoffs, and our gross margins have been quite stable over time.

ROD HALL: Okay. Great. Thanks, Luca. And then, Tim, I wanted to ask you, this question comes up once in a while. But, I just wanted to ask you if you could talk to us a little bit about the arguments on both sides of the dividend question.

Apple seems to be perpetually undervalued. It's a very large Company. It is getting harder and harder to grow. Your payout ratio is significantly below the S&P 500. I know you can't tell us what your intentions are here, but if you could help us understand how that thinking around the dividend works it would be great.

TIM COOK: We review the capital return annually, and we've established a cadence now to announce our thinking on that every April. So, we have a robust discussion around the dividend and the buyback.

We very much believe that Apple is very undervalued, and so we're investing with confidence in the Company that we know really well. And so, that thinking has I think proven out over time, and I think been very good for our shareholders. And, in addition to that, we know that some shareholders really like a dividend and some ongoing income, and so we provided an amount that we think is a good amount and have a good track record of raising it annually. And so, we'll be able to say more on that I'm sure in April of next year.

ROD HALL: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on www.apple.com/investor, and by telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Use our confirmation code 2017273. These replays will be available by approximately 5 PM Pacific Time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Kristin Huguet at 408-974-2414, and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | suva : Suva | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | fiji : Fiji | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161026ecap0089b
  


 HD
 Q1  2016 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,737 words
   PD
26 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated first-quarter FY16 earnings release conference call.

   TD
Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us.

Before we begin, we want you to know that in addition to our press release and summary data schedule, we've published some supplemental material that we'll be referring to in our remarks today; and you can find a link to this supplemental material on our Investor Relations website, at Apple.com/Investor. And it's also included as an exhibit in the Form 8-K we filed with the SEC earlier today.

Speaking first today is Apple CEO Tim Cook, and he will be followed by CFO Luca Maestri; and after that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes and future business outlook. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts.

For more information, please refer to the Risk Factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2015 and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today that I mentioned earlier, along with today's press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC.: Thanks, Nancy, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you very much for joining us.

Today we are reporting Apple's strongest financial results ever. We generated all-time record quarterly revenue of $75.9 billion in the December quarter, in line with our expectations and up 2% over last year's blockbuster results.

This is a huge accomplishment for our Company, especially given the turbulent world around us. In constant currency, our growth rate would have been 8%. Our record revenue and continued strong operating performance also led to an all-time record quarterly net income of $18.4 billion.

We sold 74.8 million iPhones in the December quarter, an all-time high. To put that volume into perspective, it's an average of over 34,000 iPhones an hour, 24 hours a day, seven days a week for 13 straight weeks. It's almost 50% more than our Q1 volume just two years ago and more than four times our volume five years ago. 74.8 million iPhones is an incredible number, and it speaks to both the immense popularity of iPhone and the phenomenal execution of our teams to deliver a massive number of devices in such a short period of time.

Our results are particularly impressive, given the challenging global macroeconomic environment. We're seeing extreme conditions, unlike anything we've experienced before just about everywhere we look. Major markets, including Brazil, Russia, Japan, Canada, Southeast Asia, Australia, Turkey and the eurozone, have been impacted by slowing economic growth, falling commodity prices and weakening currencies. Since the end of FY14, for instance, the euro and British pound are down double digits, and major currencies such as the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, and Turkish lira have declined 20% or more. The Brazilian real is down more than 40% and the Russian ruble has declined more than 50%.

66% of Apple's revenue is now generated outside the United States, so foreign currency fluctuations have a very meaningful impact on our results. Page 1 of our supplemental material illustrates this point. $100 of Apple's non-US dollar revenue in Q4 of 2014 translated to only $85 last quarter due to the weakening currencies in our international markets.

As you can see, the movement has been dramatic. Last quarter alone, the currency impact has been very large. Page 2 of our supplemental material illustrates our Q1 revenue and growth rates expressed in constant currency. The 8% growth rate I spoke about earlier translates to $80.8 billion in constant currency revenue, which is $5 billion more than our reported revenue. For perspective, that difference is about the size of the annual revenue of a Fortune 500 company.

We know the conditions in China have been a source of concern for many investors. Last summer, while many companies were experiencing weakness in their China-based results, we were seeing just the opposite, with incredible momentum for iPhone, Mac and the App Store, in particular. In the December quarter, despite the turbulent environment, we produced our best results ever in Greater China, with revenue growing 14% over last year, 47% sequentially, and 17% year-over-year in constant currency. These great results were fueled by our highest ever quarterly iPhone sales and record App Store performance.

Notwithstanding these record results, we began to see some signs of economic softness in Greater China earlier this month, most notably in Hong Kong. Beyond the short-term volatility, we remain very confident about the long-term potential of the China market and the large opportunities ahead of us and we are maintaining our investment plans.

Despite the economic challenges all over the world, Apple remains incredibly strong. We have a very satisfied and loyal customer base. We saw a greater number of switchers from Android to iPhone than ever in Q1, and we are very optimistic about our Business over the long term.

Innovation has always been the reason behind our success, and we remain committed to making the best products in the world and expanding the Apple experience to change our customer's lives in better and more meaningful ways. We've invested through economic uncertainty in the past and we've always come out stronger on the other side.

In fact, some of the most important breakthrough products in Apple's history were born as a result of investing through the downturn. We've also seen these times as opportunities to invest in new markets, just as we're doing now in areas such as India and other emerging markets.

Getting back to our record Q1 performance, let me give you some highlights of what we've accomplished since our last quarterly call together. We shipped the amazing new iPad Pro, which has been extremely well received by customers along with a new smart keyboard and revolutionary Apple pencil.

We launched the all-new Apple TV with its own App Store, laying the foundation for the future of television. We had our best quarter by far for Apple TV sales and the number of apps developed for Apple TV is growing rapidly. Today there are over 3,600 apps delivering everything from games to entertainment to educational programming.

We expanded distribution of Apple Watch to almost 12,000 locations in 48 countries during the quarter. As we expected, we set a new quarterly record for Apple Watch sales, with especially strong sales in the month of December.

We released OS X El Capitan, refining the experience and improving performance for our Mac customers. We also updated the entire iMac family with stunning new retina displays and introduced a new line up of wireless accessories. We launched Apple Pay in Canada and Australia with American Express and announced plans to bring this amazingly convenient, private, and secure mobile payment experience to China, Hong Kong, Spain and Singapore in the coming year.

Consumers have spent billions of dollars with Apple Pay. In the second half of 2015, we saw a significant acceleration in usage, with a growth rate 10 times higher than in the first half of the year. There are now over 5 million contactless payment ready locations in the countries where Apple Pay is live today and it's soon to be accepted at thousands of Exxon- and Mobil-branded stations across the US via their Speedpass Plus app. Finally, we also shared the incredible Apple Music experience with even more listeners, with over 10 million paying subscribers less than four months since customers began paying for the service.

Our financial position has never been stronger. We had the mother of all balance sheets, with almost $216 billion in cash, which translates to nearly $39 per diluted share of Apple stock. We continue to invest confidently in our future and we also continue to return capital to our shareholders at a rapid pace.

Our investors have been asking for a while about the recurring nature of our Business. Especially during a period of economic uncertainty, we believe it is important to appreciate that a significant portion of Apple's revenue recurs over time.

First and foremost, our customer satisfaction and retention rates are second to none and provide us with a long lasting foundation. For example, recent consumer surveys by 451 Research, formerly known as Change Wave, measured an incredible 99% customer satisfaction rate for iPhone 6S and 6S Plus and an equally impressive 97% rate for the iPad Air 2. They also indicate that our iPhone loyalty rate is almost twice as strong as the next highest brand.

In addition, a growing portion of our revenue is directly driven by our existing install base. Because our customers are very satisfied and engaged, they spend a lot of time on their devices and purchase apps, content and other services. They also are very likely to buy other Apple products or replace the one that they own. And because of the enduring value of the device, their replacing is likely higher to be given or sold to someone who will also love and use it often.

So as a result, our installed base has been growing very fast and has recently reached a major milestone, crossing 1 billion active devices for the first time. This is an unbelievable asset for us. Because our installed base has grown quickly, we have also seen an acceleration in the growth of our services business, another large and important source of recurring revenues. Now that we have reached this milestone of 1 billion active devices, we thought this would be a great opportunity to share more information on what has become one of the largest service businesses in the world.

So now, I'd like to turn the call to Luca, who will provide more insight into how our platform has grown, followed by details on our record quarterly results.

LUCA MAESTRI, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone.

Each quarter, we report results for our Services category, which includes revenue from iTunes, the App Store, Apple Care, iCloud, Apple Pay, licensing, and some other items. Today, we would like to highlight the major drivers of growth in this category, which we have summarized on page 3 of our supplemental material.

The vast majority of the services we provide to our customers, for instance, apps, movies and TV shows, are tied to our installed base of devices, rather than to current quarter sales. For some of these services, such as content, we recognize revenue based on transaction value. For some of the services, such as the App Store, we share a portion of the value of each transaction with the app developer and only recognize revenue on the portion that we keep.

To fully comprehend the scale of the services that we are delivering to our installed base and how fast this business is growing, we look at purchases in addition to revenue. When we aggregate the purchase value of services tied to our installed base during FY15, it adds up to more than $31 billion. That's an increase of 23% over FY14. In the recent December quarter, purchases of installed base services reached $8.9 billion, which is a growth rate of 24% year-over-year.

The size and growth of these services tied to our installed base compare favorably to other services companies you're familiar with. Our installed base services are also quite profitable, with gross margins that, on a purchase value basis, are similar to our company average.

Also, we're very excited by the scale and growth of our active installed base, as we indicate on page 4. We define an active device as one that has been engaged with our services within the past 90 days. Our active installed base has recently past 1 billion devices, with year-over-year growth of more than 25%.

Apple is in a unique position of strength. We have world class scales in hardware, software and services all under one roof, which lets us innovate in ways that other companies can't. We have built a huge installed base around four platforms, iOS, Mac OS, Watch OS and TV OS. We have tremendously satisfied and loyal customers who are engaged with our services at a fast growing rate. All of this provides us with an unparalleled foundation for the future of Apple business.

Let me now turn to the details of our record breaking December quarter. As Tim said, revenue was $75.9 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion, or 2% year-over-year. Our growth was driven by all-time record iPhone sales, all-time record revenue from Services, the expanded availability of Apple Watch, and the successful launch of the new Apple TV.

We achieved this record revenue performance despite a very large negative impact from the weakness of foreign currency. And in constant currency, our revenue growth rate was 8%. We once again achieved very impressive results in Greater China, with revenue growing 14% year-over-year and 47% sequentially to an all-time record of $18.4 billion. Emerging markets performance was strong overall, up 11% year-over-year and representing 34% of total company revenue for the quarter.

Company gross margin was 40.1%, up sequentially and better than our expectations, mainly due to favorable commodity costs and product mix. Operating margin was 31.9% of revenue and net income was $18.4 billion, a new all-time record. Diluted earnings per share was $3.28, a 7% year-over-year increase over our previous all-time record; and cash flow from operations was very strong, at $27.5 billion.

For details by product, I will start with iPhone. We sold 74.8 million iPhones in the quarter, an increase of 300,000 compared to last December quarter's sensational results. Total iPhone sales grew 76% in India and more than 45% in Korea, Middle East and Africa. Sales were also up 20% or more in many Western European countries and grew 18% in Mainland China. iPhone ASP was $691 compared to $687 in the year-ago quarter, in spite of a very unfavorable foreign exchange impact.

We continue to see very strong interest in iPhone, not only with consumers but also with business users. Among corporate buyers planning to purchase smartphones in the March quarter, 451 Research found that 79% planned to purchase iPhones. That is the highest iPhone purchase intent in the eight-year history of the survey.

We started the quarter below our channel inventory target range and, thanks to an extremely successful manufacturing ramp, we were able to exit the quarter slightly above the low end of our target range of five to seven weeks of iPhone channel inventory.

Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.3 million Macs compared to 5.5 million last year, a decline of 4%. We continued our long running trend of PC market share gains, based on IDC's latest estimate of an 11% global market contraction, and we were especially happy with 27% year-over-year Mac sales growth in Mainland China. We ended the quarter within our four- to five-week target range for Mac channel inventory.

Turning to iPad, we sold 16.1 million, compared to 21.4 million in the year-ago quarter, and we exited the quarter within our five- to seven-week target range of iPad channel inventory. In the segments of the tablet market where we compete, we continue to be highly successful. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad has 85% share of the US market for tablets priced above $200; and the latest data published by IDC indicates that iPad accounts for 67% of the US commercial tablet market, comprising enterprise, government and education.

iPad customer metrics are also extremely positive. In November, 451 Research measured a 97% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad Air 2; and among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within the next six months, 65% plan to purchase an iPad. Corporate buyers reported a 95% satisfaction rate for iPad and a March quarter purchase intent of 73%.

Our enterprise initiatives continue to expand. IBM released 48 new IBM MobileFirst for iOS apps in the December quarter, and there are now over 100 apps in the IBM MobileFirst for iOS catalog for iPhone, iPad and Apple Watch. Our partnership with Cisco has gained significant momentum since we announced it at the end of August. Our engineering teams are on track to deliver exciting new capabilities that create a fast lane for iOS business users by optimizing Cisco networks for iOS devices and apps, integrate iPhone with Cisco enterprise environments, and provide unique collaboration opportunities on iPhone and iPad.

We are also continuing to grow our mobility partner program. We added more than 25 partners in the December quarter, bringing the total to over 90. One great example of our progress in the enterprise is Eli Lilly, who boosted sales productivity by equipping 15,000 field based personnel across the world with iPad. A leader in mobile technology, Lilly has eliminated laptops in the field and is upgrading its US field sales teams to iPad Pro.

Turning to Services, we generated almost $6.1 billion in revenue, including $548 million we received from a patent infringement dispute. Excluding that amount, our services revenue was $5.5 billion, a new all-time record and an increase of 15% over last year, thanks in large part to strong growth from apps. Revenue from the App Store increased 27% and the number of transacting customers grew 18%, also setting an all-time record. Among our customers who purchased apps and content from our iTunes stores, the average amount spent per customer reached an all-time high in the December quarter.

Revenue from other products grew strongly, up 62% over last year, thanks to the growing contribution from Apple Watch, as well as the successful launch of the new Apple TV, both of which established new all-time quarterly records. We expanded Apple Watch distribution significantly over the course of the quarter and we experienced especially strong results during the holiday buying season.

Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $215.7 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $10.1 billion. $200 billion of this cash, or 93% of the total, was outside the United States.

We returned over $9 billion to investors during the quarter. We paid $3 billion in dividends and equivalents, and we spent $3 billion to repurchase 26 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We also launched our sixth accelerated share repurchase program, spending $3 billion and receiving an initial delivery of 20.4 million shares.

We have now completed over $153 billion of our $200 billion program, including $110 billion in share repurchases. As we have done in the past, we plan to provide an update on our capital return program when we report our second quarter results in April. We also plan to be very active in the US and international debt markets in 2016, in order to fund our capital return activities. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.52 per share of common stock payable on February 11, 2016, to shareholders of record as of February 8, 2016.

As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $50 billion and $53 billion. We are providing a wider range for revenue than usual for the second quarter because of the volatility we are seeing in the economy and in the financial and currency markets.

We expect gross margin to be between 39% and 39.5%. We believe these are extremely strong margins in light of the headwinds we face from foreign exchange and the sequential loss of leverage. We expect OpEx to be between $6 billion and $6.1 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $325 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%.

As you know, we don't provide guidance beyond the current quarter and it's difficult for us to forecast economic and foreign exchange factors; however, at this point, we believe the March quarter faces the most difficult year-over-year compare relative to the rest of the year.

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. May we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question will come from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.

SIMONA JANKOWSKI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hello. Thank you very much. Just in terms of your March quarter guidance, it does imply a double digit decline at the midpoint. Maybe if you can just clarify, first of all, what FX headwind is embedded in that?

And then just going to the fundamental underpinning reasons for that, how much of it do you think has to do with international markets in terms of weakening demand and how much of that do you think is comps versus any other factors you might identify, such as a response to higher prices for the iPhone in certain overseas markets?

LUCA MAESTRI: Thank you, Simona. Let me take this one. In constant currency, when you look at it for the March quarter, revenue would be down between 5% and 10%. So we are looking at a 400 basis point impact from foreign exchange for the March quarter.

You talked about a number of issues that are, in fact, included in this guidance. In addition to lapping, of course, a very strong year ago quarter -- just remind you that revenue growth a year ago was up 27% -- there's a number of things that we're facing. The macroeconomic environment is weakening. When you think about all the -- particularly all the commodity-driven economies, Brazil and Russia and emerging markets, but also Canada, Australia in developed markets -- clearly, the economy is significantly weaker than a year ago. We talked about the unfavorable FX, which again is 400 basis points.

One of the things that we've done to respond to the foreign exchange situation has been to increase the price of some of our products in certain international markets. That has had the effect of protecting our margins, which you've seen have been very strong, both in the December quarter and in the guidance that we provide for the March quarter.

But inevitably over time, higher prices affect demand and so we are capturing that in our guidance. So I would say these are the major reasons and the drivers for the guidance on revenue.

SIMONA JANKOWSKI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Simona. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: And next from Piper Jaffray, we'll hear from Gene Munster.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon. Tim, could you talk a little bit about the iPhone upgrade program and the theme of iPhone as a subscription? In particular, do you believe that this could have a measurable impact on the December quarter once we anniversary this? And then any thoughts on rolled outside the US when that program would.

And my follow-up question would be, I know you can't talk about new products, but any high level thoughts on the virtual reality theme. Do you think this is more of a geeky niche or something that could go mainstream?

TIM COOK: On your first question about iPhone, I think the most important thing, Gene, as you know for us, will always be the product and the experience. And so that's first and foremost. Secondly, I would say we were blown away by the level of Android switchers that we had last quarter. It was the highest ever by far. And so we see that as a huge opportunity.

Thirdly, the markets, sort of the emerging markets broader than BRIC, but including all of emerging, when I look at our share in these markets and the LTE penetration, I see huge opportunities.

In terms of the upgrade program itself, I think over time, it will be meaningful as customers get into a different pattern. How much of that plays out in the Q1 of 2017 range is difficult to say. My own sense would be that the other items I've mentioned are probably more important, but I am optimistic about the upgrade program, as well.

GENE MUNSTER: And then virtual reality?

TIM COOK: In terms of virtual reality, no, I don't think it's a niche. I think it can be -- it's really cool and has some interesting applications.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Gene.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Morgan Stanley, Katy Huberty.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks. I appreciate the macro comments as it relates to guidance, but can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking consumers might react from an ASP perspective? Do you expect consumers to move down the product line, given the macro environment?

And then also, how is channel inventory influencing guidance? Do you feel like channel inventory needs to come down, given the demand trends? And then I have a follow-up.

LUCA MAESTRI: Couple of points here, Katy. Our iPhone ASP was $691 during the December quarter. We couldn't be happier with the level of ASP that we generated in the December quarter.

Keep in mind that the foreign exchange impact on that number was $49. So obviously, the mix of products was very strong. We had great reception for the new iPhones that we launched at the end of September.

Of course, we have a very strong mid tier this year in the portfolio, with 6 and 6 Plus. But overall, when you look at the outcome during the December quarter, it was very, very strong. So we feel very good about that and we feel that we have a very, very strong portfolio for iPhone.

On the question around channel inventory, we entered the quarter, the December quarter -- and we mentioned it back in October -- below our target range of five to seven weeks. We have built a bit of inventory during the course of the December quarter. But we have exited at the low end of the five to seven weeks, so we feel that we are in good shape there. And we've exited the quarter also on iPad and Mac well within the ranges that we want to have.

KATY HUBERTY: And then as a follow-up, back in October you guided FY16 CapEx up over 30%. What's driving that growth? Can you rank it between equipment purchases, data center and real estate? And given the slowdown that you started to see in December, are you still comfortable with that level of investment growth? Thanks.

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes. So that is kind of the ranking, Katy. It starts always for us with our tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and that is up a bit year-over-year.

Then we've got data centers. And data centers is a growing expenditure for us, because, as we mentioned in our prepared remarks, our installed base of customers ands devices is growing, and is growing very significantly. And the data center capacity that we put in place is to provide the services that are tied to the installed base. So that type of expenditure goes together with the installed base.

And then around facilities, you probably know that we are nearing completion of our new campus here in Cupertino, and so this is the year where we've got our peak requirements in terms of capital.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Bernstein, we'll hear from Toni Sacconaghi.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Yes. Thank you. I have a question, a follow-up, please. To start, just on iPhones, it looks like your guidance implies about a 15% to 20% unit decline in iPhones for fiscal Q2, which I think, unless you really see a change in demand profile in the second half, suggests that iPhone units will decline year-over-year for FY16.

And I'd like you to address that question, because the obvious follow-up questions are is that because you believe the smartphone market won't grow or because Apple may be reaching saturation in the market? Is that because Apple's replacement cycle accelerated last year and is decelerating this year and that's why we'll see a decline in units?

Or is there something about Apple's ability to gain share in a market where the market is moving to much lower price points? But I'm wondering, and Tim, maybe you're best to answer it, if you can address what appears likely to be a decline in iPhone units and how we put that in the context of how we should think about that, given some healthy data around switchers that you highlighted.

TIM COOK: Toni, we do think that iPhone units will decline in the quarter. We don't think that they will decline to the levels that you're talking about. We aren't projecting beyond the quarter, as Luca mentioned earlier; but at this point in time, we see that Q2 is the toughest compare.

We believe it's the toughest compare because of the year ago quarter also had catch up in it from Q1. If you recall, we were heavily supply constrained throughout the whole of Q1, and so some of that demand moved into Q2. Plus, we are in an environment now that is dramatically different from a macroeconomic point of view than last Q2, from a currency point of view, from the level of which we've had to adjust pricing in several of these markets, and the overall melees in virtually every country in the world. And so it's really all of those factors that play in there and it's difficult to sort out how much is due to which one.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Right. Can you speak to any of the points around your expectation for the smartphone market or whether you think your replacement cycle has changed or whether your ability to gain share has changed?

TIM COOK: The market itself, we don't spend a lot of time on predicting. Our view has always been that if we do -- if we make a great product and have a great experience, that we ought to be able to convince enough people to move over. And so as I look at maybe your broader umbrella point about a question on saturation, the metrics I see would strongly suggest otherwise.

For example, almost half of the iPhones that we sold in China last quarter were to people who were buying their first iPhone. And certainly if you go outside of China into the other emerging markets, our share is much lower and the LTE penetration is so low -- in some cases, it's zero -- that it indicates to me that there's still a lot of people, a tremendous number of people in the world, that will buy smartphones and we ought to be able to win over our fair share of those.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. And I just have clarifications, I don't really have a follow-up question. Luca, you had talked about channel inventory increasing. It was 18.4 million for iPhone last quarter. Can you tell us how many more units you had this quarter?

And then I'm not sure if I misheard you, but I think you said your total installed base grew 25% year-over-year. Can you confirm that? Because if Services grew at 13% and your installed base grew at 25%, it almost implies your penetration of your installed base, in terms of your ability to sell services, is going down.

LUCA MAESTRI: Maybe I'm going to start with Services, Toni. The reason why we added this -- I think it's page 3 of our supplemental material -- is to try and explain that a couple of steps. The first one is that of the services that we report, there's a portion, about 85% of all of the services that we report is directly tied to the installed base. There is a smaller portion of our services business that is not related to installed base and more related to when we sell a device. A perfect example would be an Apple Care agreement that you purchase at the time of the sale of the device.

And then we are showing that on that portion of installed base-driven services business, there is a part that is related to -- where we recognize revenue in terms of the full transaction value. And then there are transactions, like for example, App Store sales, where a portion of the transaction does not get recognized by Apple, but it goes to the developer.

So when you look at it from a purchase value standpoint, actually in the December quarter, we grew 24%, and for the FY15, we grew at 23%. So we are growing at very, very healthy levels. And to reconfirm the growth of the installed base, yes, it was over 25%.

To the question around the channel inventory for iPhone, we grew channel inventory by 3.3 million units during the course of the December quarter. Keep in mind, we started in acquisition where we were below our targeted range. We were significantly short at the beginning of the quarter.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Cross Research, Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. I had a question about gross margin. Luca, you got gross margins of 39% to 39.5% in your guidance, and that includes hedging. So I'm curious about the puts or takes in there.

And then can you clarify if within the gross margin this quarter, that had the IP licensing contribution, as well? Any color you can give, both on this quarter's gross margin puts and takes, and then also the March quarter. And then I have a follow-up.

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes. So Shannon, let me start with Q1. I think when you say IP licensing, you mean this patent dispute that was resolved. Yes, it was included in the gross margins. And it was worth 40 basis points in the 40.1% that we reported for Q1.

For the second quarter, the puts and takes are actually quite simple. From an FX standpoint, the negative impact on a sequential basis from the December quarter is 50 basis points.

Then of course, I would say by far the largest impact on margins for the quarter is the loss of leverage, because that's part of our seasonal pattern, which gets offset by a favorable commodity environment that we've seen for a number of quarters now. And in a way, it's the other side of the coin of the foreign exchange situation.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thanks. And then Tim, can you talk a bit about -- and I apologize, I sort of lost my voice here -- can you talk a bit about leverage within the model? I know you said you want to invest while there's great opportunity in China and all of that. But given some of the pressures you're seeing, how do you think about where you spend that incremental SG&A dollar and that R&D dollar, and how should we think about it, given you're running $6 billion a quarter?

TIM COOK: Yes, on the R&D, Shannon, we're continuing to invest without pause. We have some great things in the pipeline and we very much believe strongly in investing through downturns, such as the one that everyone is going through.

In terms of SG&A, we obviously seek to throttle expenditures in SG&A to the business level, with the exception of where we're investing in new stores and, for example, our expansion plans in China have not changed. We are maintaining our investment profile and plans there. We are also continuing to invest in markets where we believe they are great places for Apple for the long term, like India, as an example of that one.

And finally, even in the markets where today, grantedly, it looks fairly bleak, from Russia and Brazil and some of the other economies that are very much tied to our oil-based economies. We do believe that this, too, shall pass and that these countries will be great places and we want to serve customers in there, and so we're not retrenching. That's not -- we don't believe in that. We are fortunately strong enough to continue investing, and we think it's in Apple's best long-term interest to do so.

Obviously, from a cost point of view, the downside of economic stress is that some asset prices get cheaper, commodity prices get cheaper, and that sort of thing. And so I think this is exactly the period that you want to invest and do so confidently.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Steve Milunovich with UBS.

NANCY PAXTON: Steve, are you there?

TIM COOK: Steve?

NANCY PAXTON: Let's go on to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll hear from Brian White with Drexel.

BRIAN WHITE, ANALYST, DREXEL HAMILTON: Tim, could you talk a little bit about the next leg of growth in China? Obviously, Apple's done a phenomenal job there. But where do we see the next leg coming from?

And also, you mentioned investing in India. Where do you see that over the next two to three years? I think there's 1 billion mobile subscribers there, almost the size of China. Thank you.

TIM COOK: Brian, good question. In terms of China, the LTE penetration as of the end of last October, which is the last data I've got, was in the mid 20s. And so there's an enormous upgrade cycle there for people that are still running on 3G handsets.

Also, I've talked about this before, but I think it's worth mentioning again, because it's easy to lose perspective with some of the things you read every day, is that the middle class in China was less than 50 million people in 2010, and by 2020, it's projected to be about half a billion. And so there's just an enormous number of people moving into the middle class. And we think this provides us a great opportunity to win over some of those customers into the Apple ecosystem.

And so I think the demographics are great. We're continuing to invest in retail stores. Angela and her team have been on this very aggressive rollout plan. We now have 28 stores in Greater China and we are on target to have 40 in the summertime of this year. And so we're continuing on distribution.

Obviously, we've got product things in mind and are crafting our products and services with China heavily in mind. We remain very bullish on China and don't subscribe to the doom and gloom kind of predictions, frankly.

In India, India is also incredibly exciting. India's growth, as you know, is very good. It's quickly becoming the fastest growing BRIC country. It's the third largest smartphone market in the world, behind China and the United States.

The population of India is incredibly young. The median age there is 27. I think of the China age being young, at 36, 37. And so 27 is unbelievable. Almost half the people in India are below 25. And so I see the demographics there also being incredibly great for a consumer brand and for people that really want the best products.

And as you know, we've been putting increasingly more energy in India. India revenue for us in Q1 was up 38%. We also had currency issues in India, as everybody else did. Constant currency growth was 48%. And so it's a very rapidly expanding country. And I think the government there is very interested economic reforms and so forth that I think all speak to a really good business environment for the future.

BRIAN WHITE: Okay. Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Brian. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Kulbinder Garcha with Credit Suisse.

KULBINDER GARCHA, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thank you. My question's for Tim on the iPhone business. You talk a lot about the macroeconomic weakness weighing on units, but is some of the issue just that last year replacement got accelerated and this year it's kind of normalizing, and that's kind of a one-time headwind in terms of the unit growth that you see in that business. Is any of that going on, or is that not material, in your view?

And the other follow-up I had was that you've mentioned in recent calls, helpfully, the percent of the base, prior to when the 6 came out, that were now on the larger screen phones. Can you give us an update on what that number is? I think the last time it was in the low 30s. Thanks.

TIM COOK: Last question first. The number of people who had an iPhone prior to the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus announcements -- and so this was in September of 2014 -- that have not yet upgraded to a 6, 6 Plus or 6s or 6s Plus is now 60%. So another way to think about that is 40% have, 60% have not.

In terms of your initial question about is there some of the compare issue that are people that ran out quickly to buy a 6 and 6 Plus and sort of accelerated? There is no doubt that we had an unbelievable year last year, and the Q2 was particularly really, really strong because of the pent-up demand that left from Q1 in addition to Q2. And so there's no doubt about that.

However, I think you can tell from the numbers that Luca is talking about just on the currency side, and that's before thinking through the affect that price increases can sometimes have on the business over a period of time, it's clear that the economic piece is large.

KULBINDER GARCHA: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Kulbinder. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: And next we'll hear from Steve Milunovich with UBS. Mr. Milunovich, you may want to check your mute button.

TIM COOK: Steve, are you there?

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Let's try the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll hear from Mark Moskowitz with Barclays.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon. A question and a follow-up. As far as the question, Tim, I wanted to get a better sense from you in terms of what is the overarching message of introducing a little more details here around services. Is this really to just reinforce the power of the franchise or the platform at Apple in terms of to really navigate tougher macro times in terms of the higher level recurring revenue, or is it a stepping stone to much more in terms of Apple service, i.e. I think of all the stuff you do on the data center side. Could we eventually have seen, with the help of IBM and Cisco, that you eventually move more into the cloud services for the enterprise?

TIM COOK: So good question. We started breaking out Services, as you know, in the beginning of FY15. And as that business has grown and as it became clear to us that the investors and analysts wanted more visibility into that business, we've now elected to break it out and show the full size, scope, growth, and make comments on the profitability of it from a transparency point of view.

I do think that the assets that we have in this area are huge, and I do think that it's probably something that the investment community would want to and should focus more on. In terms of our future plans, I wouldn't want to comment about any particular thing, but obviously, with breaking this out, we wouldn't be breaking it out if it wasn't an area that was very important to us in the future.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. Thank you. And I wanted to follow-up on the upgrade advance program dynamics. Can you talk a little more about what you're seeing in terms of in-store at the Apple Stores? Are you seeing any sort of dislocation in terms of folks who are moving to the upgrade or finance program, are they moving more toward Apple versus maybe the in-store percentage that used to be related to the carriers? In other words, are folks just going with Apple now, instead of the carriers, when they buy their phone, as part of these upgrade programs?

TIM COOK: Honestly, this has nothing to do with wanting to move customers from one person to another. This has to do with wanting to provide customers a very simple way to upgrade. Because we serve a significant number of customers in the Apple Store who want the iPhone when it's new and when it comes out, and so we've designed a program that made it simple and easy to do that. I have no idea over time how the percentage of the sales will vary between carriers and the Apple retail store, but that's not our overriding objective.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mark. We have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: And your final question will come from Jim Suva with Citi.

JIM SUVA, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you very much. A question for Tim and then a detail follow-up for Luca. Tim, with the macro situation changing, a lot of CEOs view that and their strategy is very different go-to-market strategy. Some change the way they go to market. Some change their products.

In the past, Apple's been very known in always having a premium product. With the slowdown in the macro FX and also GDP revision, is Apple's strategy go-to-market still always at premium product, or is there a need to go to more also a middle market or lower price point to attract more customers? Just because it seems like growing that installed base and services, as you pointed out, really economically could really help out Apple in the long term.

And then the financial question for Luca is on that patent litigation, Luca, when you gave guidance three months ago, did you have a view that that was coming in? And if so, was that included in the guidance or not, or was that post the quarter guidance? And I assume it's all one-time this quarter you recorded it, it's all gross margin, and we don't cause that to reoccur again going forward. Thank you very much.

TIM COOK: Our strategy is always to make the best products. And that, for the smartphone market, that we are able to provide, though, several different price points for our customers. We have the premium part of our line is the 6s and the 6s Plus. We also have a mid price point, with the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus. And we continue to offer the iPhone 5s in the market and it continues to do quite well. And so we offer all of those, and I don't see us deviating from that approach.

We always want to offer somebody the -- we don't design to a certain price point. We design a great product and we make it priced at a great value. And today, we're able to offer all three of those different iPhone options.

LUCA MAESTRI: And Jim, on the patent question, yes, obviously this is a one-off item that affected the December quarter. As I said earlier, it's worth 40 basis points. So without it, our gross margin would have been 39.7%. It will not repeat going forward.

To your question around was it included in the guidance, yes, the probability of receiving the amount was incorporated in the development of the guidance range. If you remember, we guided to 39% to 40%, and that number was included within the range.

JIM SUVA: Thank you very much, gentlemen.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Jim. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks, podcast on the iTunes store, webcast on Apple.com/Investor, and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and please enter confirmation code 7349088. These replays will be available by approximately 5:00 PM Pacific Time today. And members of the press with additional questions can contact Kristin Huget at 408-974-2414. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hooper or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | suva : Suva | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | fiji : Fiji | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160127ec1q004ph
  


 HD
 Q4  2015 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,737 words
   PD
27 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated fourth-quarter FY15 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to call over to look Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Speaking first is Apple's CEO, Tim Cook and he will be followed by CFO, Luca Maestri. After that we will open the call to questions from analysts.

Please note that some of the information you will hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those regarding revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes and future business outlook. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2014, the Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of FY15, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Today we are reporting a very strong finish to a record-breaking year, and I would like to reflect on some of the highlights. We completed our fiscal year in September, and we are proud to report revenue of $234 billion, an increase of 28% and $51 billion over 2014. This is our largest absolute revenue growth ever.

To put that into some context, our growth in one year was greater than the full-year revenue of almost 90% of the companies in the Fortune 500. We made huge inroads into emerging markets, generating over $79 billion in revenue and growing 63% despite very strong headwinds from foreign exchange rates. These results are made possible by Apple's commitment to innovation and creating the best products on Earth. In the past 12 months, around the world we've sold over 300 million devices, including 231 million iPhones, 55 million iPads and 21 million Macs. Setting new unit records and increasing our global market share for both iPhone and Mac. We crossed 100 billion cumulative downloads from the app store, and we added powerful new services to our ecosystem including Apple Pay in the United States and United Kingdom, Apple Music in over 100 countries and Apple News in the US. We also entered an entirely new category with Apple Watch and we are in the very early innings of this promising new part of our business.

We generated over $53 billion in net income and grew earnings per share by 43%. We returned almost $50 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases while continuing to invest confidently in research and development, marketing and distribution, our retail and online stores, our supply chain and our infrastructure. We also completed 15 acquisitions to enhance and accelerate our road map for products and services. We accomplished all of these things while intensifying our efforts to protect the environment, to promote equality and human rights and to ensure the security and privacy we know our customers deserve.

We are ending the year on a high note with a record-breaking September quarter, including sales of 48 million iPhones, beating our expectations and up 22% year-over-year. Momentum for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus remain very strong across the quarter, and we established a new launch record for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s plus near the end of the quarter.

We are seeing strong interest around the world, and we have been getting great feedback from customers who love the iPhone's new features including 3D Touch, Live Photos, the new iSight camera and the powerful new A9 processor in the iPhone 6s and 6s plus. We exited the quarter with demand for new iPhones exceeding supply, but we've made good progress with our manufacturing ramp in the initial weeks of October. We sold an all-time record 5.7 million Macs, continuing to defy the negative trend in the global personal computer market which IDC estimates contracted by 11%. The App Store set new all-time quarterly records for both the number of transacting customers and overall revenue. The strong performance of the App Store helped fuel $5.1 billion in services revenue, also an all-time record.

Sales of Apple Watch were also up sequentially and were ahead of our expectations. This quarter we introduced beautiful new Apple Watch cases and bands, including New Gold and Rose Gold Aluminum Apple Watch sport models. We released Watch OS/2 in September, paving the way for a whole new class of native apps that are faster and can take advantage of the hardware capabilities of Apple Watch such as the microphone, speaker and the heart rate sensor. Today, there are over 13,000 apps on the watch App Store, including over 1,300 native apps such as Facebook Messenger, MLB At Bat and Runkeeper, and the number is growing rapidly. Apple Watch has already had a tremendous effect on customers' health and fitness, and the stories we're hearing about its impact are truly inspirational. I personally heard from people who credit Apple Watch with saving their lives, and customers are finding new applications all the time in their day-to-day activities.

Revenue and Greater China nearly doubled year-over-year, and we continue to focus and invest heavily there. I just returned from a four-day visit to Hangzhou and Beijing where we announced major new initiatives to provide renewable energy for our supply chain. I also visited our retail stores in China, which are among the busiest in the world. On Saturday we opened a new store, our 25th in greater China, to a very enthusiastic crowd, and we are on track to achieve our goal of 40 stores by the middle of next year.

Yesterday we started taking orders for the all-new Apple TV, and it was a huge first day for this exciting new product. We want to provide the same innovation in the living room that we've delivered in our iOS devices. People are already watching more TV through apps today, and we think apps represent the future of TV. We've built a new foundation around this vision with the new operating system called TV OS, innovative ways to connect with your screen and a smart use of Siri to search for what to watch.

Next month we will begin shipping iPad Pro, the most powerful iPad we've ever made. iPad Pro will enable a new generation of apps for entertainment and productivity, design and illustration, engineering and medical, and much more. And with the Apple pencil and smart keyboard, users can customize their experience, making iPad Pro an even more powerful tool for everyone from students to artists to business professionals.

iOS 9 has hit the ground running, on track to be downloaded by more users than any software release in Apple's history with 61% of active iOS devices already running it less than six weeks after its September 16 release. In late September, we also launched OS X El Capitan, which has made the world's most advanced desktop operating system more refined and powerful than ever before.

Apple Music has set a completely new standard, redefining and combining the best ways to enjoy music in a single immersive app. Over 15 million individual and family accounts are experiencing Apple music, including over 6.5 million paying customers. We are thrilled to bring Apple Music to China beginning this quarter, along with iTunes movies and iBooks, and we are especially happy to offer such great new and diverse content to our large, highly engaged and rapidly growing customer base in China. We are also looking forward to bringing Apple Music to the new Apple TV beginning this week.

Apple Pay is seeing double-digit growth in transaction month after month, and we continue to add major businesses including Starbucks, which will rollout Apple Pay support to all its US stores in 2016. Apple Pay now supports merchant rewards programs as well and popular retailers will be coming on line in the next few weeks. We are thrilled to announce today that we are partnering with American Express to bring Apple Pay to eligible customers in key global markets, so even more people can experience the easy, secure and private way to pay. Apple Pay will be available to eligible American Express customers in Australia and Canada this year and is expected to expand to Spain, Singapore and Hong Kong in 2016.

The reach of our ecosystem continues to grow, and iOS is changing more and more aspects of our customers' lives in a very meaningful ways from their health to their homes to their cars. In health, there are now more than 1,600 health kit enabled solutions that are helping us live a healthier day. In the home, there are over 50 brands working on home kit enabled accessories that can be privately and securely controlled from your iPad and iPhone and in the car, more than 50 automobile models have been announced with CarPlay support which provides a smarter, safer and more fun way to use iPhone in the car, and we will continue to work to make the iOS experience even more meaningful across more touch points of our daily lives.

The impact of ResearchKit also continues to build. We recently announced new studies on autism, epilepsy and melanoma, adding to the important studies already underway on conditions from asthma to diabetes to Parkinson's disease. Our iOS news app is off to a great start. Nearly 40 million people are reading Apple news, and we have been getting very positive feedback from the publishers. We have now signed more than 70 publishers representing hundreds of titles, and we are happy to announce that news just launched in the United Kingdom and Australia with partners such as the BBC, News Corp, the Telegraph, The Guardian, Financial Times, Daily Mail and the Australian Broadcasting Service.

And finally, we are making great strides in the enterprise market, announcing a new strategic partnership with Cisco in September while furthering our progress with IBM and building our mobility partners program. We estimate that enterprise markets accounted for about $25 billion in annual Apple revenue in the last 12 months, up 40% over the prior year, and they represent a major growth vector for the future. I would like to thank our talented and incredibly hard-working employees, our developers and our business partners around the world and of course, our very loyal customers for making 2015 Apple's most successful year yet. With that, I will turn the call over to Luca to go over the September quarter results in more detail.

LUCA MAESTRI, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Tim, good afternoon, everyone. It is great to conclude our record FY15 with our strongest September quarter ever. Revenue for the quarter was $51.5 billion, an increase of $9.4 billion, or 22% year-over-year. Our growth was driven by the very strong performance of iPhone, the expanded availability of Apple Watch and all-time high services revenue and Mac sales. We achieved these outstanding results despite severe and persisting weakness in foreign exchange rates around the world that affected all our geographic segments, and this makes our year-over-year growth rates even more remarkable. In constant currency, our growth during the fourth quarter would have been 800 basis points higher.

We once again reported very strong numbers in greater China, with revenue growing 99% year-over-year to $12.5 billion. Emerging markets performance was strong overall. Up 65% year-over-year and representing 31% of total Company revenue for the quarter. Company gross margin was 39.9%, up sequentially, better than our expectations, mainly due to lower than expected costs. Operating margin was 28.4% of revenue, and net income was $11.1 billion, a new September quarter record. Diluted earnings per share were $1.96, a 38% year-over-year increase, and cash flow from operations was $13.5 billion. Also a new fourth quarter record.

For details by product, I'll start with iPhone. We sold 48 million iPhones in the quarter, up 22% year-over-year with strong performance around the world throughout the quarter. Total iPhone sales were up 120% in mainland China, grew over 35% in South Asia and increased by over 20% in several markets around the world including Germany and Italy. iPhone ASP was $670, an increase of $67 year-over-year. Thanks to more favorable mix and in spite of the very significant negative impact from foreign exchange that I referred to earlier. We increased iPhone channel inventory by less than 2 million units in order to support our new product launch at the very end of September quarter. We exited the quarter with demand exceeding supply and channel inventory below our targeted range of five to seven weeks.

Next I would like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.7 million Macs, which is an all-time quarterly record and represents 3% year-over-year growth. We extended our very long running trend of PC market share gains based on IDCs latest estimate of an11% global market contraction. Mac growth was driven primarily by the great customer response to our new Mac Book and sales of Mac Book Pro also remains strong. We ended the quarter below our four to five week target range for Mac channel inventory.

Turning to iPad, we sold 9.9 million compared to 12.3 million in the year-ago quarter. iPad sell-through was 10.4 million as we reduced channel inventory by about 500,000 units. We exited the quarter below our five to seven week target range of iPad channel inventory. iPad customer metrics remain extremely positive. In August, ChangeWave measured a 97% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad Air 2 and among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, 70% plan to purchase an iPad. Corporate buyers reported a 95% satisfaction rate for iPad and a 90 day purchase intent of 73%.

In the segments of the tablet market where we competes, we continue to be very successful. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad has 73% share of the US market for tablets priced above $200, and the latest data published by IDC indicates that iPad has a 74% share of the US commercial tablet market.

As Tim mentioned, our enterprise initiatives continue to expand. In September we announced a new strategic partner with Cisco to optimize their networks for iOS devices with the goal of providing iOS mobile users with great performance advantage over other mobile platforms. Also, during the September quarter IBM released new MobileFirst for iOS apps in healthcare, financial services, travel and transportation and industrial sectors, including new apps leveraging iOS 9 and Watch OS 2. There are now 55 apps in the IBM MobileFirst for iOS catalog, and the list of project signings is growing rapidly. Inside IBM, Macs are gaining tremendous traction. There are currently over 30,000 Macs deployed within the Company with 1,900 more being added each week. IBM tells us that each Mac is saving $270 compared to a traditional PC thanks to much reduced support cost and better residual value. This is a terrific example of the kind of opportunity our devices offer to improve user experience and create value in the enterprise world.

Our mobility partner program also continues to grow with more than 25 new partners added in the September quarter, bringing the total to over 65. And we are already seeing some great success stories with this program. We're also very excited about the potential of iPad Pro in the enterprise. For example, with the Bloomberg professional app, more than 325,000 financial professionals will be able to use iPad Pro to gain instant global access to finance and business news, market data and portfolio tracking and trading tools.

Turning to services, we generated $5.1 billion in revenue, a new all-time record and an increase of 10% over last year, mainly due to strong growth from apps. Revenue from the App Store increased 25% and the number of transacting customers grew 18%, also setting an all-time record. Services growth was particularly impressive in China where App Store revenue grew by 127% year-over-year. The momentum behind the App Store in China has been tremendous, with huge interest from developers and customers alike. Our developer program in China has grown dramatically in the last year with over 1 million members in our program today.

Revenue from other products grew strongly, up 61% over last year, thanks to the growing contribution from Apple Watch. We expanded Apple Watch distribution significantly over the course of the quarter, and it was available at almost 5,000 locations in 32 countries by quarter end. Our retail and online stores had a very busy quarter. We opened seven new stores, including our first store in Belgium. That brought us to a global store count of 463, of which 195 are in 15 countries outside the United States. In FY16 we expect to open or replace between 40 and 50 stores, and we continue to place particular emphasis on greater China where we plan to have 40 stores opened by the middle of next year.

Customers have been very interested in the iPhone upgrade program offered in our US retail stores. The iPhone upgrade program gives customers purchasing a connected device an easy convenient way to get a new phone every year with low monthly payments to a third-party lender, along with the security and protection of AppleCare Plus. After making 12 or more installment payments, customers can upgrade to a new iPhone.

Let me also quickly discuss three accounting matters. First, relative to the iPhone upgrade program that I just mentioned, we would be reducing revenue at the time of sale for the costs associated with the program, and deferring the portion of revenue related to AppleCare, software upgrade rights and non-software services for each iPhone sold. Second, in September, based on an analysis of market offerings, we reduced the estimated selling price of future software upgrade rights and nonsoftware services that we defer for each iOS device and Macs sold, the reduction is between $5 and $10 per unit. Third, also in September, we lengthened the time period over which the deferred revenue associated to iPads will be recognized from two years to three years.

Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $205.7 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $2.8 billion. $187 billion of this cash, or 91% for the total, was outside of the United States. In the September quarter we issued a total of $5.8 billion of term debt consisting of $1.25 billion of British pound-denominated notes, $2.25 billion of Australian dollar-denominated notes and $2 billion of euro-denominated notes. This left us with $56 billion of term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.

We were very active in the market during the quarter end returned over $17 billion to our investors. We paid $3 billion in dividends and equivalents, and we spent $14 billion to repurchase almost 122 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We also completed our fifth accelerated share repurchase program in July and retired an additional 10 million shares of settlement. We have now completed over $143 billion of our $200 billion program, including 104 billion share repurchases, of which 36 billion was repurchased in FY15 alone.

Now as we move ahead into the December quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $75.5 billion and $77.5 billion compared to $74.6 billion in the year ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 39% and 40%. We expect OpEx to be between $6.3 billion into $6.4 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $400 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.2%.

Also, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.52 per share of common stock, payable on November 12, 2015 to shareholders of record as of November 9, 2015.

With that, let's open the call for questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow up. May we have the first question please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks. Good afternoon.

In light of December quarter revenue guidance, firmly low single-digit revenue growth in what looks like increasingly tough comps heading into the March quarter, how you get comfortable that Apple isn't on the verge of ex-growth for the first time in a decade? And then I have a follow-up.

TIM COOK: Kate, it is Tim.

You have to consider the constant currency growth rates. And so if you do that, our guidance is actually 8% to 11%, because we have about a 700 basis point FX headwind in Q1. The growth is actually quite good underneath that, and that is obviously a problem that everyone is struggling with.

Zooming out to the more macro question about growth, here's what I see currently. We believe that iPhone will grow in Q1, and we base that on what we are seeing from a switcher point of view. We recorded the highest rate on record for Android switchers last quarter at 30%. We also look at the number of people that have upgraded that were in the installed base prior to iPhone 6 and 6 plus. And that number is in the low 30%s, so we feel like we have a very open field in front of us. Our performance in emerging markets, although it is quite good and our revenue is good, our market share is low and the LTE penetration in these markets is quite low.

Also, if I zoom out and look at China, as I've said before, and just to make the point once again, is we see an enormous change in China over the next several years. The latest study I've seen from McKenzie indicates if you look back five years, China's middle class had about 50 million people and it, if you look ahead five years, it will have 10 times that number in it. And I feel like we are reasonably well positioned in China. I'm sure we can do better, but I think we are doing fairly well there.

It is not the only market that we are working on, obviously. I was really impressed last quarter with our progress in Vietnam and Indonesia and India, among others. Also from the currencies point of view and the weak global economies, you don't overly focus on this. My view is it is a transitional thing and we invest for the long term, so we are continuing to invest for Apple's future.

In addition to those, Apple TV is off to a great start. Apple Watch is just getting going. The app store hit a new record again last quarter, and the growth seems to be really great there. I'm really happy with the early days of Apple Music and the people moving from the free trial to the music business.

And finally, the enterprise business is not to be underestimated. I doubt very many people knew that we had a $25 billion enterprise business that we've quietly built in not too many years. But our penetration is low, but we had significant actions going on to really deepen that. Everywhere I look, I see significant opportunity. Long answer, but I thought you might be interested.

KATY HUBERTY: No, I appreciate that. Just as a follow-up on growth, if you look at large services companies, Facebook, Amazon, Google, they are all growing over 20%, and it is largely driven by activity of Apple users on iOS devices. Do you feel like there's more that Apple can do to participate in that services growth, or are you relegated to fundamentals that are tied to a device upgrade cycles?

TIM COOK: The App Store is growing over 20%, it grew 25% last quarter so we feel very good about that. That's become a sizable business. I would also point out that some of these upgrade programs that are in the market, where they begin to look more like a subscription business in terms of the way they operate. We think that in the aggregate, that they may reduce upgrade cycles. And also the iPhone that has been sold to someone else it hits a price point that we are not hitting today largely, which could help further fuel the services revenue, which we did quite well on last quarter.

KATY HUBERTY: Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Katy, may we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Piper Jaffray, Gene Munster.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon, and congratulations.

Tim you just briefly touched on reducing the time between upgrades, but how do you think about the iPhone upgrade cycle compressing over the next few years? Obviously the impact from carriers' changes in the iPhone upgrade program. Can you talk a little bit about when that is going to be rolled out internationally? And then lastly, Luca, you mentioned some of the accounting changes related to the iPhone upgrade program. Any sense in terms of what percentage of the plus -- the S upgrades were associated with the upgrade program?

Thanks.

TIM COOK: Gene, in terms of the upgrade program, it is early, but here's what we believe our current view is. We do think that the broader upgrade programs, so I'm not just talking about our program in retail, that is relatively small compared to our total iPhone sales in the Company. But the broader thing, obviously, is that many of the carriers are offering these plans. And that if you look at them in the aggregate, we think that it would have a positive impact on replacement cycles.

We do like the fact that it creates a market for an iPhone at a different price point, as well, that is a better product than that customer may be currently buying, which will further help from ecosystem point of view, and that is not to be underestimated. It also seems like that from a rollout point of view, there's -- you will see these plans offered in a significant way in the United States already. But in fact, these plans are being offered in some derivation in over a dozen countries in the world. They are not as pervasive as they are in US, but it seems like we are on the front end of a fairly major trend in the industry.

LUCA MAESTRI: From a financial perspective, Gene, the transaction on our iPhone upgrade program is a purchase, it is not a lease, and so we recognise our revenue up front. Of course, we deduct also upfront the cost associated with the program essentially to provide interest-free financing, and we need to estimate the fair value of the upgrade option for the customer. But as Tim said, it is a popular program in our US store, but in the scheme of things, it's a small percentage of our worldwide iPhone sales. And so it will have really a negligible impact, for example, on ASPs for the phone.

GENE MUNSTER: Tim, if we put it all together, is this something that has more measurable impact on the business two, three quarters down the road? Is that right way to generally think about it?

TIM COOK: Yes, we think about it as being -- there were some clearly that were offered in the market prior to this cycle, but they became much more pervasive and much -- they were communicated, I think, much wider with the September announcements. And so I would expect to begin seeing this somewhere around a year from now.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Gene. May we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. Tim, I appreciated the color that you provided on the drivers of iPhone growth in Q1. I think the investor concern is that Q1 will benefit, at least on a year-over-year basis, from three extra weeks of availability in China, and it will also benefit from more of those initial launch days that only two of them were in the September quarter and the remainder will be in the December quarter.

The investor concern is, December is a structurally advantaged quarter in the sense of benefiting from both of those tailwinds on a year-over-year basis. But if we look out beyond December, wouldn't that point to notably lower seasonal growth in the March quarter? And how do we think about the factors affecting unit growth beyond the December quarter? And then I have a follow-up please.

TIM COOK: We don't guide beyond the December, as you know, Toni. I do think that the macro things I spoke about earlier, the upgrade programs, the Android switcher rate, the iPhone momentum in the merging markets and the LTE penetration in these markets, these trends are not one quarter things. These are longer-term things, and so my same response applies.

And where I think we will do quite good in iPhone, I do believe we will grow this quarter as we put in our guidance, that when you start with the number in the low 30%s in terms of the percentage of the installed base that's upgraded, that had a phone pre the iPhone 6 and 6 plus, that number is still likely to leave a lot of headroom beyond December. So, that's how I look at that.

In terms of your first comment, you did not ask you to comment on that, but just to be clear, I would have -- our forecasting doesn't work like you articulated it. I recognize that people can have their own models and so forth, but just to make it clear that I am not agreeing with your point.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay.

Then just on the follow-up, the reported gains from currency hedging in FY15 were significant, several billion-dollar contribution to the Company. And again, this is not an Apple specific issue, Luca, as you pointed out several times. But how do we think about this notion of currency hedges effectively rolling off and being replaced with hedges that are likely to have less of an impact?

How do we think about that impacting the P&L on a go forward basis, perhaps starting with Q1, but then qualitatively or directionally over the course of the year? And what are some of the kinds of things that you've undertaken or are planning to undertake that can mitigate some of those concerns?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, I think Toni, it's a very good point. What's going to happen in practice is we've got this portfolio of hedge contracts that, over time, provides protection to our margins and to our results. But that protection diminishes as we go through the year, and so we should expect that. That over time during the course of FY16, that protection will come off, assuming that the dollar stays at current levels. Keep in mind that there are some currencies around the world where we cannot economically hedge, so those currencies are a bit excluded from what we are talking about right now.

I think, my conclusion is that, the guidance that we are proving for the first quarter, that 39% to 40%, it is actually an incredible level of guidance, given the foreign exchange headwinds that we are dealing with. How do we deal with them? We will continue to hedge, so our program continues on an ongoing basis, and we will continue to provide some level of protection to foreign exchange movements.

In some cases, we have realigned prices. Particularly when we launched new products, we tend to do that in a number of countries where the foreign exchange moves are being particularly extreme. So, we tend to recover that through pricing.

Finally, of course we are putting in place a number of cost initiatives that will allow us to deal with the foreign exchange situation. So overall, we feel very strong guidance for the first quarter and beyond the first quarter, as you know, we are not guiding, so we will see over the course of the year.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much.

Tim, I wanted to go back to commentary on the enterprise business. $25 billion, I think you said was up 40% year-over-year. I know you had a relatively small sales force internally and obviously, you're utilizing the joint ventures. But as you noted, you see it is an important driver of growth. So, how do you attack that market going forward? Will there be changes, is this something you need to shift or focus product in a little bit of a different direction to make sure you can adequately attack it? Just in general, how are you thinking about it?

TIM COOK: From a product point of view, we've actually been continuing to change and improve iOS for some time. With every release there ar more enterprise features, and so I would describe it as a continuation of that cadence, perhaps with a little more intensity. From a go-to-market point of view, we will be working with -- or are working with IBM, with Cisco. We are already working with 75 ability partners that are principally in the US, but that is expanding quickly to international, as well.

So, many of these companies have, in some cases, very large sales forces and in many cases, a reasonable size sales force. And in addition to a direct sales force, there is a huge worldwide indirect channel that many customers buy from and count on buying some services from. So, I do not envision Apple having a large enterprise sales force. We will clearly make -- continue adding some people more on the engineering side, but I don't envision having a large direct sales force.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, great, thank you. And then can you give us some more color on China, 120% year-over-year growth in iPhone. But can you talk in general about what you are seeing in the marketplace and perhaps where you think you are in terms of penetration from a smartphone standpoint, especially with say, China Mobile, which has a substantial opportunity to grow, given the LTE penetration?

TIM COOK: Yes, if you look at China, we grew from an iPhone point of view, Greater China, we grew 87%; the market grew 4%. If you take iPhone out of the market number so the market ex- iPhone actually contracted slightly. So we have been able to grow without the market growing. iPhone 6 was the number one selling smartphone in mainland China last quarter and iPhone 6 plus was number three. So, we did fairly well.

The economic question, which I know there's been a lots of attention on, frankly, if I were to shut off my web and shut off the TV and just look at how many customers are coming in our stores regardless of whether they are buying, how many people are coming online and in addition to looking at our sales trends, I would not know there was -- there was any economic issue at all in China. I don't know how unusual we are with that.

I think that there's a misunderstanding, probably particularly in the Western world about China's economy, which contributes to the confusion. That said, I don't think it is going as fast as it was, but I also don't think that Apple's results are largely dependent on minor changes in growth. I think it is much more of contributing -- I think other things contribute to that much more.

That doesn't say we will never have a problem there because of the economy. I'm not saying that. I'm not dumb enough to think that. But I just think that the area that it is currently operating within, it is hard to tell a difference at the consumer level for us. You really can't tell the difference if you look at it our daily and weekly numbers.

So, we're very bullish on it. And I would point out that we are investing in China not for next quarter or the quarter after or the quarter after, we are investing for the decades ahead. And as we look at it, our own view is that China will be Apple's top market in the world. And that's not just for sales, that's also the developer community is growing faster than in any other country in the world. So, the ecosystem there is very, very strong. I was very impressed with the number of the developers I met last week and of course, the customers in stores are enthusiastically contagious.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Can we have next question please?

OPERATOR: Steve Milunovich, UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Tim, I wanted to talk about the two sources of your iPhone demand, selling to current customers and selling to new customers. In terms of selling to current customers, you indicated about one-third of the base has moved to the 6 line. As much as people talk about that being huge upgrade cycle and what does the 6s as have incrementally, 33% is not that big a number, I would've thought it would be bigger than that. Does this suggest that there maybe more of a consistency to upgrading then the Street perceives?

Then on the other side, in terms of new customers, just wanted clarity on the switcher number. Are you saying 30% of iPhone shipments in the quarter went to android switchers to iOS? And do you believe the could actually have more new customers to Apple and FY16 then you had in FY15?

TIM COOK: There's a lot there, let me start with android switcher. What this means is that for customers who purchased an iPhone last quarter and replaced a smartphone, that 30% of those switched from an android device. So, there would have been some switchers on top of that from other operating systems, but obviously, android is the largest one by far. That's what that means, and that number is the largest that we have ever recorded since we began measuring it three or so years ago. So, it is a huge number, we are very proud of that number.

In terms of 2016 versus 2015, new customers. It is hard to predict. I'm very happy with how we're doing, we're doing better than we've ever been doing. People I know there is a fixation on the upgrade rate. When I look at the upgrade rate, Steve, what I see is I feel good that it is a low number because that low number means that there's 69% of the people that are out there prior to the iPhone 6 and 6 plus that have not bothered to upgrade just yet. That's a large number. I see that as an opportunity.

Do I think it has anything -- does it link to consistency? I think part of it is, and I believe that the iPhone upgrade plans that are out there, as I mentioned before, it seems to me only the future will tell if this is true are not. But it seems to me it is going to act as a catalyst to accelerate some of those upgrades. I think that's not something that we are going to see this quarter or next quarter, but it seems like it is going to happen beginning a year from now or so.

Begins to be -- you've seen the plans, they look more and act more like the subscription than they do like a purchase. That's great for the customer because many of them want to upgrade on a frequent basis and they can do this very, very simply.

In terms of new, I don't know whether we will have more new or not, I can tell you that that's always our objective. We want to add a lot more people to the ecosystem. And certainly, if you look in the emerging markets, even -- nobody's asking me about iPad on the call, but if you look at iPad as just an example, in China, 68% of the people that purchased an iPad, it was the first tablet they've owned, and 40% of those had never owned any Apple product.

Just to go through one product with one set of numbers, I don't want to go through bunch of numbers because it is competitive data that I don't want to share, but these are things that we are very focused on and the first time buyer number is surprisingly strong. Keep in mind that we have a good history of once people buy one Apple product, they have a great experience, they begin to look at other Apple products. Of course, we make sure that all work well together.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Steve, have next question please?

OPERATOR: Goldman Sachs, Simona Jankowski.

SIMONA JANKOWSKI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hello, thank you very much. Just as a follow-up to that last question and to put that in context, roughly what percent of the iPhone shipments come from shipments to the installed base versus from new user shipments?

TIM COOK: I don't know the answer to your question.

SIMONA JANKOWSKI: Okay, and then just a follow-up, as Luca mentioned, you've had to make adjustments to the pricing in various regions, given the currency moves we've had. What has been the response in terms of demand, both in terms of units and revenues in some of these regions like Japan or India, parts of Europe where the local prices have to go up?

LUCA MAESTRI: Simona, we've made a number of price changes during the course of FY15. What we have seen in a number of these markets, we have seen that iPhone sales have been very resilient, and that is shown in our growth rates. Most recently we have adjusted some prices around the world for the launch of the iPhone 6s and 6s plus.

We feel very positive about the sales trends around the world. It is bit early to tell, because the phones have been out there just for four weeks, so it is a bit early to tell there. Obviously, when we increase prices around the world, it is normal to see some impact on sales rates, but so far, we have been very encouraged by the response.

TIM COOK: Let me go back to your question, and this is an not exactly what you are asking, but it will give you, I think, some color. Is the reason I can't answer this is we do not look at it in the aggregate, we actually look at the detail, because it's much more important to us to look at by iPhone model, by country, what percentage going to a first iPhone buyer. Somebody that's never owned an iPhone before.

If you look at China as the example, it is over 50% of people that bought a 6 and a 6 plus were buying their first iPhone. As you move down the line, that number goes up. So a 5s, generally speaking, is higher in most countries. So, that gives you a feel for a very important market and where the numbers are.

SIMONA JANKOWSKI: Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Simona, can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Amit Daryanani, RBC Capital Markets.

AMIT DARYANANI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks a lot. Good afternoon. Two questions from me is all.

Could you talk about the gross margin dynamics as you go from September to December. The midpoint implies down 40 basis points. I think the last five years, that's only happened once when gross margins have gone down in fiscal Q1. Could you talk about what the FX dynamic, or what about other headwinds that you think would imply gross margin being down in December?

LUCA MAESTRI: Amit, let me give you the puts and takes for margin for the December quarter. On the positive side, of course, as you've mentioned, that we would have positive leverage from the higher seasonal volumes. Also, what we have seen over the last several quarters is a commodity environment that has been quite favorable, and we expect it to remain favorable during the December quarter.

On the other hand, of course, we are launching a lot of new products. We've launched some in September. We're launching some now. And every time we launch new products, we make them better. We add features and new technology, and these products, when we launch then, tend to have higher cost structures than the products that they replace. We have a very good track record over time to reduce those cost structures, but every time we introduce a new product, there is a headwind at the beginning of this cycle for gross margin.

But what is different from a year ago, very significantly, is the foreign exchange impact that we have mentioned before. It remains a very significant headwind. As I mentioned earlier to Toni, I believe, we are dealing with that through combination of hedging, price realignments, cost initiatives. But on a net basis, foreign exchange we will clearly be a sequential headwind.

AMIT DARYANANI: Got it. And then Tim, when you talk about seeing iPhone growth in fiscal Q1, I'm curious, is that statement more reflective of iPhone units or iPhone revenues? Because I think ASPs could help you get growth, even if units are not there. And then would you expect to exit within the five- to seven-week optimal inventory range in fiscal Q1?

TIM COOK: I don't know about where we will exit. We make that call late in the quarter as we see what the demand is, because we are actually trying to position the inventory for the following quarter instead of the current quarter. It is very difficult to predict. What was your other question?

AMIT DARYANANI: I was curious, your statement on iPhone growth in fiscal Q1, is that --

TIM COOK: Is a revenue? I was making a revenue statement, but units are also yes, we expect units to be up, as well.

AMIT DARYANANI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you, Amit, could we have the next but please? JPMorgan, Rod Hall.

ROD HALL, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking my question.

I just wanted to ask Tim if you can comment on the mix between iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s, and whether the mix of demand is any different than what you say, for instance, at the iPhone 5, 5s point, whether there's more demand for the iPhone 6? I know you highlighted that the iPhone 6 is a number one phone in China, for example, and then I have a follow-up.

TIM COOK: The statement I made in China was about Q4 and the 6s was only available in China for two days last quarter. The iPhone 6s it is the most popular iPhone that we currently sell. In terms of, has there been a change? If you look at iPhone 6 today and add iPhone 6 plus and compare that to last year's 5s, we are doing better at that price point than we were previously.

ROD HALL: Okay, thank you. Then the follow-up for you would be on the upgrade program. I wonder, can you envision a time ever, maybe in the US or elsewhere, where you would not have to come into an Apple Store to activate it or to take advantage of the upgrade? You might be able to do that somewhere else? Can you talk about --

TIM COOK: That's really good question. We actually solved that problem back in 2007, but then quickly had to change it in order to scale in a major way.

That is something that we would always -- it is always in our mind that one day, from a customer experience point of view, we would like to make things as easy as possible for the customer. And to some degree, you can already do that with buying online. But there are many different plans and so forth that people buy that they have to come in for. Yes, over time we would love to have that automated, working with our partners with service providers.

ROD HALL: Great. Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Rod. A replay of today's call will be available for to two weeks as a podcast is on the iTunes Store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor and by via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay our (888)203-1112 or 719 457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 795707. These replays will be available by approximately 5 PM Pacific Time today. Members in the press with additional questions can contact Kristin Huguet at 408-974-2414. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions; Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
itablcm : Tablet Computers | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302011 : Portable Computers | i3454 : Personal Electronics | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151029ebar000xd
  


 HD
 Q3  2015 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,691 words
   PD
21 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated third-quarter FY15 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE INCORPORATED: Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking first today is Apple CEO, Tim Cook, and he'll be followed by CFO, Luca Maestri. After that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, and future business outlook. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2014, the Form 10-Q for the first two quarters of FY15, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective date. I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INCORPORATED: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us. It's been a busy and exciting quarter, and I'm delighted to talk to you about the highlights.

Today, we're proud to report record June quarter results with revenues of $49.6 billion and earnings of $10.7 billion. Our year-over-year growth rate in the fiscal third quarter accelerated over the first half of FY15. Revenues were up 33%, our fastest growth rate in over three years, and earnings per share were up 45%.

We achieved these incredibly strong results, despite reducing channel inventories across our product lines by over 1 million units and despite the challenging FX environment. Revenue exceeded the high end of our guidance by $1.6 billion, as we topped our internal expectations for sales of iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch.

We had another stellar quarter for iPhone, establishing a new June quarter record. iPhone unit sales grew 35%, which is almost three times the rate of growth of the smart phone market overall, and we gained share in all of our geographic segments. iPhone revenue grew even more strongly, up 59%, but strong iPhone results were broad-based in both developed and emerging markets, and we experienced the highest switcher rate from Android that we've ever measured.

Most importantly, iPhone customer metrics are tremendous. ChangeWave's most recent survey of US customers found that iPhone has the highest customer satisfaction rate of any smart phone brand by a wide margin, and that among iPhone owners planning to purchase a new phone, 86% plan to purchase another iPhone. That compares to 50% repurchase intent for the next highest brand measured.

We also had a tremendous record quarter for Mac, continuing to defy the industry trend with unit growth of 9% in a market that IDC estimates contracted by 12%. Growth was fueled by great response to our new Mac book, and we are working hard to catch up with customer demand.

We generated over $5 billion in services revenue setting a new, all-time record. Within services, the App Store produced its best quarter ever with revenue growing 24%. Our results from greater China were outstanding with revenue growth of 112% and iPhone unit growth of 87%. This is particularly impressive given IDC's estimate of only 5% growth for the greater China smart phone market.

We also achieved our highest ever PC market share in the segment with Mac sales growing 33% over last year. And, our ecosystem in China continues to grow at a very fast pace with App Store revenue more than doubling in the quarter. Luca will go into more detail on our product and financial results in a moment.

A major highlight of the past quarter for all of us here at Apple was the launch of Apple Watch in April. As you know, we've been very excited to get this revolutionary product to customers. We started taking pre-orders in nine countries on April 10 and demand immediately exceeded supply by a wide margin. To prioritize those first orders and to deliver the best experience for our customers, we delayed the availability of Apple Watch in our own retail stores until mid-June.

We made huge progress with the production ramp across the quarter, and near the end of the quarter expanded into six additional countries. And in just the past few days we've been able to catch up with demand, enabling us to expand Apple Watch availability to a total of 19 countries currently with 3 more countries to be added at the end of this month.

The feedback from Apple Watch customers is incredibly positive, and we've been very happy with customer satisfaction and usage statistics. Market research from Wristly measured a 97% customer satisfaction rate for Apple Watch, and we hear from people every day about the impact it's having on their health, their daily routines, and how they communicate. Our own market research shows that 94% of Apple Watch owners wear and use it regularly, if not every day. Messaging and activity features are among the most popular, and social networking apps, including Twitter, WeChat, and LINE are seeing the most usage among third-party apps.

We believe that the possibilities for Apple Watch are enormous, and that has been reinforced in just the first few weeks since it became available to customers. For example, doctors and researchers at leading hospitals in the US and Europe are already putting Apple Watch to work in improving patient's lives.

Nebraska Medicine, the latest hospital to adopt Apple Watch, has rolled out new apps that facilitate communication between patients and doctors and provide quick access to important chart and dosage information. Ochsner Health System of Louisiana is using Apple Watch with hypertension patients to gather important information like daily activity and blood pressure level. And, leading cancer centers like London King's College Hospital are incorporating Apple Watch into trials for ongoing care and monitoring of cancer patients.

Great Apple Watch solutions go well beyond healthcare. Users are tracking their fitness, getting breaking news alerts, following their investments, connecting with friends, and living a healthier day. The user experience for Apple Pay and Siri is nothing short of incredible, and customers are enjoying countless other features through the over 8,500 third-party apps available for Apple Watch. This is just the beginning of what this new platform can deliver.

With Apple Watch OS 2, developers now have the ability to build richer and more powerful native apps for Apple Watch taking advantage of the heart rate sensor, the digital crown, accelerometer, and more, ushering in a whole new class of apps designed specifically for the wrist. It's a rare and special privilege to launch a new platform with such promise and potential, and I know I speak for everyone at Apple when I say that we can't wait to see what our developers and customers do with it.

We hosted a fantastic developers conference in June with thousands of attendees from 70 countries coming together with Apple engineers to share in the excitement of our three operating systems -- OS X, iOS, and Watch OS. We have been working hard to make our products even more intelligent, more powerful, and more meaningful in all aspects of our customers' lives, while adding new continuity features to make the experience across our devices more seamless than ever and preserving the security and privacy that our customers deserve. Public betas of OS X El Capitan and iOS 9 are available now, and customer versions of all three updated OSs are on schedule and will be delivered in the fall.

We are very excited about our news app coming to iPhone and iPad with iOS 9. We believe it will be the best news reading experience on any mobile device, combining a beautiful magazine layout with real-time customized digital media content. News will follow over 1 million topics and pull relevant stories based on the user's specific interests without compromising their privacy. We've already signed 25 leading publishers representing more than 75 of the world's most influential news, sports, business, and magazine titles including: CNN, New York Times, the Financial Times, ESPN, Bloomberg Business, Conde Nast, Hearst, Reuters, Time Inc., and the Daily Telegraph.

The September quarter is off to an exciting start. We're thrilled by the response to Apple Music, which launched in over 100 countries on June 30.

Apple Music is a single immersive app that combines the best ways to enjoy music all in one place. It's an incredible streaming music service, a pioneering worldwide live radio station broadcasting 24 hours a day, and a great place for music fans to connect with their favorite artist. Customers and reviewers love the human curation features of Apple Music and the way it's helping people discover new music.

Millions and millions of customers are already experiencing the new service using the three-month trial period, and the numbers are growing substantially every day. Over 15,000 artists have signed up to post on Connect where we are already seeing great original content, including a world premiere video by Drake. Millions of listeners around the world are tuning into Beats One, the first-of-its-kind worldwide radio station featuring some of the most talented and passionate music lovers on the planet. This all adds up to a renewed sense of excitement around music, which we love and expect to continue as Apple Music gets traction with customers.

Last week, we launched Apple Pay in the UK, bringing customers our easy, secure, and private way to pay. On day one, we had an incredible roster of over 0.25 million locations and major credit and debit cards for many of the UK's most established banks supporting Apple Pay. Customers are using Apple Pay to ride the London Underground as well as the Overground system of transports for London, and we hope this will be a model for other public transportation systems around the world.

In the US, we've seen fantastic support from merchants of all sizes. We're excited to see this momentum continue with the new Square Reader coming this fall. It will bring Apple Pay to even more neighborhood businesses where you pay every day, from your corner coffee shop to your local farmers market, bolstering the 80,000 small and medium-sized businesses we're already adding every month. American Express will add Apple Pay support for its robust portfolio of corporate cards next month, offering businesses and their employees a new way to make easy and secure payments.

And as we head into the school year, 700 universities and colleges across the US will accept Apple Pay such as Auburn University, the University of California-Irvine, Colorado State University, the University of Kentucky, and the University of Oklahoma, among many others. We're on track for Apple Pay acceptance at over 1.5 million US locations by the end of 2015.

I'd like to thank our customers, developers, business partners, and employees for another record-breaking quarter. We're very hard at work on our exciting pipeline of new hardware, software, and services, and we're continuing to expand our global reach into new markets. We're passionately committed to leaving the world better than we found it.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Luca.

LUCA MAESTRI, SVP & CFO, APPLE INCORPORATED: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon to everyone. As we have done for the first half of our FY15, we are reporting another record quarter today.

Revenue for the June quarter was $49.6 billion, an increase of $12.2 billion, or 33% year over year. Our growth was driven by the tremendous performance of iPhone, the introduction of Apple Watch, and the continued strength of Mac and App Store sales. We achieved these great results in the context of a very challenging foreign exchange environment around the world and a reduction in channel inventory of over 1 million units across all product lines, which makes our growth performance even more remarkable.

As Tim mentioned, our results were especially impressive in greater China where revenue more than doubled year over year to over $13 billion. Emerging markets overall grew 79% to almost $18 billion and represented 35% of our total Company revenue.

Company gross margin was 39.7%, better than our expectations mainly due to strong iPhone sales. Operating margin was 28.4% of revenue, and net income was $10.7 billion, a new June quarter record. Diluted earnings per share were $1.85, a 45% year-over-year increase. And, cash flow from operations was $15 billion, also a new third-quarter record.

For details by product, I'll start with iPhone. We sold 47.5 million iPhones in the quarter, representing 35% year-over-year growth and demand for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus has continued to be terrific all around the world. iPhone sales more than doubled in Germany, Korea, Malaysia, and Vietnam; were up over 85% in greater China and in India; and increased more than 45% in several countries, including Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, and Turkey.

The strong mix of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus lead to an iPhone ASP of $660, an increase of $99 year-over-year, despite the significant negative foreign exchange impact I referred to earlier. We reduced iPhone channel inventory by about 600,000 units during the quarter, which left us at the low end of our target range of five to seven weeks of channel inventory.

Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4.8 million Macs, representing 9% year-over-year growth. As we have done for several years in a row, we continued to gain significant market share based on IDC's latest estimate of a 12% global PC market contraction. Mac growth was driven by portables, and we are delighted with the very strong customer reception of our new MacBook. We ended the quarter slightly below our four to five-week target range for Mac channel inventory.

Turning to iPad, we sold 10.9 million compared to 13.3 million in the year-ago quarter. iPad sell-through was 11.2 million as we reduced channel inventory by about 300,000 units. This left us within our five to seven-week target range of iPad channel inventory.

iPad customer metrics continue to be extremely positive. ChangeWave recently measured a 97% customer satisfaction rate for iPad Air 2. And, among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, over half plan to purchase an iPad. For corporate buyers, the purchase intent was even stronger at over 70%.

We do not participate in the low end of the tablet market, but we are extremely successful where we do complete. NPD recently indicated that iPad has 76% share of the US market for tablets priced above $200. We're very excited about the advances in the iPad experience coming in iOS 9 in the fall, including the slide over and split view features for easier multitasking, picture in picture for FaceTime and video, and enhanced quick type for composing text even faster.

We're also seeing great momentum in the enterprise market. For instance, riding on the success of iPad use by its pilots, United Airlines has not only renewed its iPad program with more than 10,000 iPad Air 2s, but it has also made a strategic decision to provide iPhones to over 20,000 flight attendants. In the near future, United plans to introduce new apps to transform the customer experience and improve integration with flight operations.

We're also very happy with the progress of our IBM partnership. IBM released 13 new MobileFirst for iOS apps in the June quarter, including new apps in retail, banking, and healthcare, as well as new horizontal apps for HR and sales. There are now 35 apps in IBM's MobileFirst for iOS catalog that connect users to big data and analytics right on their iPads or iPhones. We expect a total of 100 apps to be available by the end of 2015.

Active customer engagements have also grown to over 500, and recent notable customer wins include Air Canada, National Grid in the UK, and Banorte in Mexico.

In April, Apple, IBM, and Japan Post announced a joint initiative to deliver iPads with IBM-developed apps and analytics to connect Japanese senior citizens with services, healthcare, community, and family. Japan Post hopes to reach 4 million to 5 million Japanese customers with these solutions by 2020. Since announcing this initiative less than three months ago, we're already seeing strong interest from other countries looking for innovative ways to support an aging population.

Importantly, we also continue to work closely with leading business software and solution providers to help businesses of all sizes transform work with iPad and iPhone. The number of these mobility partners has expanded rapidly to over 40. They're developing new and differentiated solutions on iOS across many industries and attracting very significant customer interest.

Turning to services. We generated over $5 billion in revenue, a new all-time record and an increase of 12% over last year, thanks primarily to strong growth from apps. Revenue from the App Store increased 24%, and the number of transacting customers grew 19%, also setting an all-time record.

Services growth was particularly strong in China where App Store revenue more than doubled year over year. China-based developers have created 250,000 apps for our China App Store, and the response from our customers has been tremendous.

The revenue from other products grew sharply, up 49% over last year. The contribution from Apple Watch accounted for well over 100% of the growth of the category and more than offset the decline of iPod and accessory sales. As we said in the past, we do not plan to disclose Apple Watch metrics because we don't intend to provide insight that could help our competitors.

Our retail and online stores had a very busy quarter with customer visits up 49% year over year, driven especially by the very strong interest in Apple Watch. Thanks to our very popular Apple Store app, mobile traffic to our online stores during the quarter equaled desktop traffic for the first time ever.

We opened three new stores: our second store in Brazil, our sixth store in Manhattan, and our 22nd store in greater China. That brought us to a global store count of 456, of which 190 are outside the United States, and we're on track to have 40 stores open in greater China by the middle of next year.

Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $202.8 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $9.3 billion. $181 billion of this cash, or 89% of the total, was offshore. In the June quarter, we issued a total of $10 billion of term debt, consisting of $8 billion US dollar-denominated notes and JPY250 billion yen-denominated notes as we continue to diversify our global debt investor base. This left us with $50 billion of term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.

During the quarter, we turned over $13 billion to our investors. We paid $3.1 billion in dividends and equivalents, and we spent $4 billion to repurchase 31.2 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We also launched a $6 billion accelerated share repurchase program in May and received an initial delivery of 38.3 million shares. The purchase period for the new ASR will end in or before November of 2015.

We have continued to execute our capital return program at a fast pace, and we've now taken action on over $126 billion of our $200 billion program, including $90 billion in share repurchases. The weighted average price for all open market purchases and completed ASR programs to date is $86.

Now, as we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $49 billion and $51 billion compared to $42.1 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 38.5% and 39.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $5.85 billion and $5.95 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $400 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.3%.

Also, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.52 per share of common stock payable on August 13, 2015, to shareholders of record as of August 10, 2015. With that, let's open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: We ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good afternoon. While the year-on-year iPhone growth was very attractive, the sequential unit decline in the June quarter was worse than the past two years. Why do you think that was? In particular, why drain channel inventory when iPhone 6 is selling so well? And then, I have a follow-up.

TIM COOK: Katy, it's Tim. As Luca mentioned, the channel inventory did go down by 600,000. We sold more units than we thought we would, and so that was a part of that. The other part of it is that we always run with just the amount of inventory that we think we need, and so to the degree that sales are distributed in the countries with -- disproportionately with shorter supply chains or the standard deviation demand is less, we would always choose to have less.

And so, in this particular quarter, we were able to end basically right at the bottom end of our range. And we view that as a good thing, not a bad thing. Obviously, the revenues could have been much higher if we would have expanded the channel, but if you don't need to do that, that's not how we think about the business. We run the business for the long-term, not the 90-day clock.

In terms of what's going on with iPhone, the 35% growth is almost three times the market, and if you look at it at a little narrower regional level, Western Europe grew 30% versus a market of 7%. So, 4 times market, and Japan grew over 5 times market. We doubled in Korea versus a market that was shrinking, and India, we grew at 93%. This is on top of the greater China numbers that we've already covered that grew 87% during the quarter against a market of 5%. And so, we did exceptionally well I think in any way that you look at it.

In terms of our -- the percentage of customers that have upgraded to a 6 and 6 Plus versus -- that were -- that have not upgraded, it's 73%. Or, meaning that 27% of the install base of customers prior to the launch of 6 and 6 Plus have now upgraded. And so, we view that as a very bullish sign on the future that there's a lot of headroom left for upgraders. We also are incredibly happy to see the highest Android switcher rate that we've observed. And so, from our point of view, the iPhone is doing outstanding.

KATY HUBERTY: So, Tim, just to extend that conversation to the longer-term, as I'm sure you're aware, you're lapping some pretty significant comps as it relates to the upgrades that you are talking about as well as significant growth in China. What is the framework that you use to convince yourselves that iPhone units can continue to grow over the longer term?

TIM COOK: Katy, we purposely just give guidance for the current quarter, and we have done that. Obviously, the kind of numbers that we have indicated growth in the revenue means that iPhone would have another stellar quarter and so we're very confident that this quarter is going to be great. How the future looks, we'll take it one quarter at a time.

But, as I back up from it and look at it more from a macro point of view, the things that make me very bullish is the 27% number I just quoted, the fact that we are seeing the highest Android switcher rate; the customer satisfaction that we have on the iPhone versus the competition, it's a huge margin; the loyalty rate that we have versus competition, an enormous gap there.

I also look at the first-time iPhone buyers, and we're still seeing very, very large numbers in the countries that you would want to see those in, like China and Russia and Brazil and so forth. I also see a market that over a five-year horizon, if you look at the IDC numbers, is projected to grow from 1.3 million in 2014 to over 1.9 -- this is billion, rather -- billion in 2019. So, it's an incredible market. I think everybody is going to own a smart phone, and I think we've proven that we can compete for a fair number of those, as you can see from our results.

KATY HUBERTY: Great. Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy.

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Could you walk us through the key factors behind your gross margin range for the September quarter? And, in particular, how we should think about the sequential ForEx impact this quarter and the impact of a potential product transition cost?

LUCA MAESTRI: Bill, it's Luca. So, we are guiding to 38.5% to 39.5%. Just keep in mind, last year in Q4 our gross margin declined by 140 basis points sequentially, so this year we are expecting a sequential decline of 20 -- 220 basis points. I would point to three main factors for the decline.

First of all, to your point around foreign exchange, it continues to be a challenging environment given the strengthening of the US dollar. In our case, the impact on margin after the hedges is going to be about 30 basis points for Q4. Also, I want to point to a different mix, which is typical of our seasonality as we enter the back-to-school season during Q4. Thirdly, the transition cost that you've mentioned as we prepare for a busy fall.

And so, those are the three factors that will have an impact on gross margin sequentially. I would point that, in general, costs continue to be -- particularly commodity costs continue to be favorable and so that would be a partial offset to the factors that I mentioned.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Thanks. Could you give us a bit more color on the mix dynamics for the iPhone in the June quarter, and how this compares to prior generations and your expectations? Obviously, there continues to be an upward bias helping the ASPs, as you mentioned, but could you give us a bit more detail on what exactly you're seeing here? Particularly, I think it's interesting in the context of a continued tilt towards the emerging regions, obviously.

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes. So, as we mentioned, the ASP for iPhone was up $99, 18% increase year over year. And, this is really driven by the mix. By the fact that we've added iPhone 6 Plus to a new price point. And, in general, iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are doing extremely well as a percentage of the portfolio.

Keep in mind that this $99 was partially offset by $24 of unfavorable foreign exchange, so the number would have been even better. So, yes, clearly 6 and 6 Plus, and I think we've talked about it in prior calls. The 6 Plus is doing particularly well in the markets that you would expect: greater China, other Asian markets. Those are markets where our growth rates are particularly strong and the 6 Plus, because of the screen size, is doing extremely well.

BILL SHOPE: All right. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon. Luca, you talked a little bit about gross margins in the previous question, but could you talk about how we should think about the trends in the gross margin? In other words, should the margin trends that we've seen in other cycles continue into next year?

And then, a follow up or another question for Tim here. The Watch has been under a lot of interest from investors and some may have wanted a little bit more. You outlined some of the opportunities and some of the progress you've had, but any thoughts that you would have for investors who may say that the category is just not taking off as fast as they would have hoped?

LUCA MAESTRI: Gene, let me start with gross margin. As Tim said before, obviously, we guide to the current quarter. As we look at it at a macro level, I think every cycle is different for a variety of reasons.

There are also things that are not necessarily within our control. For example, currency markets can be very different one year to the next. We know that the next year is going to present an additional challenge given where the dollar has moved. Commodity markets may be very different from one year to the other.

There are things that remain relatively similar as we launch new products, for example, we innovate the products. We want to make them better all the time, and that typically requires additional cost. And so, the cost structures of our products -- new products tend to be higher than the products they replace.

Having said that, as you know we've got a very good track record to reduce those cost structures over the lifecycle of the products. I think this should give you a bit of color. Of course, maybe the one thing that I want to point out, again, as we get into the following year is that, of course, currency will be an issue.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

TIM COOK: Gene, this is Tim. Let me talk about the Watch some. As you know, we made a decision back in September, quite several months ago, not to disclose the shipments on the Watch. That was not a matter of not being transparent. It was a matter of not giving our competition insight. It's a product that we've worked really hard on.

However, let me give you some color to avoid reaching a wrong conclusion. If you look at the other products category and looked at the revenue in this category, it would not be an accurate thing to just look at the sequential change or the year-over-year change and assume that were the total Watch revenue, because the aggregate balance of that category, both sequentially and year over year, is shrinking. Obviously, iPod is a part of that, but there are other things in there, accessories and so forth, that are shrinking.

Secondly, to provide a bit more color, sales of the Watch did exceed our expectations, and they did so despite supply still trailing demand at the end of the quarter. To give you a little additional insight, through the end of the quarter, in fact, the Apple Watch sell-through was higher than the comparable launch periods of the original iPhone or the original iPad. And we were able to do that with having only 680 points of sale.

As you probably know, as I had reviewed earlier, the online sales were so great at the beginning, we were not able to feed inventory to our stores until mid-June. And so, those points of sale pretty much -- the overwhelming majority of the low number of sales, were not there until the last two weeks of the quarter.

And so, as I look at all of these things, we feel really great about how we did. Now, our objective [for the quarter] wasn't primarily sales. Beyond the very good news on sales, we are more excited about how the product is positioned for the long-term, because we're starting a new category.

As I back up and look at this, with 8,500 apps, we've already announced the next operating system, Watch OS 2. It will bring native apps, which are going to be killer, to the Watch.

Even though the store layout was delayed, we've learned a lot about the buying experience. Based on that experience, we're now planning to expand our channel before the holiday, because we are convinced that the Watch is going to be one of the top gifts of the holiday season.

Now, most importantly of all of this, is the customer sat is off the charts, because we've constantly seen, if you can get the customer satisfaction off the charts, you can wind up doing fairly well over time. We've also learned a lot about managing quite an assortment and so forth.

So, I back up and look at this and I feel fantastic about what the team has done and delivered. I know I never go anywhere without the Watch and it's not because I'm the CEO of Apple. I'm that attached to it. I get lots of notes from a lot of people that feel the same way. That's how I look at the Watch.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Yes. Thank you. Luca, I think in your prepared remarks you talked a little bit about your market share of iPad in the US above $200 being 78%. I'm wondering, if you think about the iPhone and your market share in the premium category, how do you think about it?

I've seen market data that says you have 60% market share for phones above $300 or you have actually 90% market share for phones above $600. I'm wondering if, Tim or Luca, you could maybe talk about how you think about your market share where you play, given that your ASP is comfortably above $600. What do you think your market share is above $500 or $600 in smart phones and how do we think about that market share going forward?

TIM COOK: Toni, it's Tim. We look at it a bit differently than you do. We look at it as our job is to grow our products, regardless of the price, which means that we need to convince, in some cases, people to move from one price band to the other. And, that we think that if we do a great job with the product that people will be willing to spend more because they get so much more out of it.

I think you can look at the results on the iPhone and see that in action. We grew 87% in China. We grew 90%-plus in India. Emerging markets are growing 65%. These numbers are unbelievable, and they are done in an environment where it's not the best of conditions.

That's how we look at it. We don't do the [MBA] analysis of there's only X people buying in a price band, and therefore, we can only get X minus Y percent. That's not the way we have ever looked at it. If we did, we wouldn't be shipping any products.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Tim, I'm asking in part because you talked about the highest-ever Android switcher. I'm wondering, if indeed, your goal of expanding the category is happening or whether you are taking share and how you measure the relative contribution of each of those in your success.

So is the strength and the dramatically above-market growth because you are taking share in that high-end category? And, how far along are you there? Or, can you point to proof points that you've actually expanded the size of the market for products of your price point?

TIM COOK: I think there's no doubt; if you look at it, we are expanding the market size in those areas. It's also true that there's some people that are switching from comparable price points to the iPhone, and that's great, too. But, I think the answer is that both of those things are happening and it is key that we do both, not just one.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. And then, if I could just ask you to comment on how you think about replacement cycles with the current iPhone 6 cycle? When you look at replacement cycles over the last three quarters, are they similar to what you saw one and two years ago when you think about replacement?

And, one of the things that also struck me was I think you cited market research having repurchase intention of 86% versus your competitors at 50%. Quite frankly, the 86% sounds low to me. Is that actually consistent with what you see in the marketplace? About 86% of iPhone buyers, ultimately, buy another iPhone? Perhaps you can just help us think about replacement cycle and how that's changed and the percentage number and how that jives with reality.

TIM COOK: 86% also seems low to me, but I was quoting a third-party source and not our own data. Our own data would look better than that, but the numbers are only comparable if I quote the third-party source for both, and so that's what I'm doing.

On the upgrade cycle, what we are seeing; it's not remarkably different. However, there's a number of plans that people begin signing up for in the last year that could change it. These are upgrade-any-time kind of plans. They may be one-year leases that could actually help the upgrade rate. I think it will be interesting to see how that plays out over the next horizon.

But, generally speaking, I see positive vectors there, not negative. In the aggregate.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Jim Suva, Citi.

JIM SUVA, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you very much. As you look at -- many of your products have been absolutely fantastic, and in different phases in their life they've seen tremendous high growth, whether it's iPad, iPhone, iPod. And iPhone looks like it's facing some very challenging comps here in the next few quarters.

Does this make you shift even more strategic focus into broadening the reliance on a couple products? Such as you've mentioned Apple radio; there's a lot more content on the Apple Watch and apps, and then also Apple Pay. Are you increasingly focusing on hiring in these [non-hardware things]? Or, are these more peripheral activities and the focus is right now on the phone?

TIM COOK: Well, we think the -- Jim, it's Tim. We think the phone has a lot of legs to it; many, many, many years. There's tons of innovation left at the phone. I think we are in the early innings of it, not in the late innings. And I think the market rate of growth over the long haul will also be impressive, and so I think there will be multiple winners here. So that's how I see it.

In terms of the other things that we're doing, we have some great capability and great teams in Apple, and so we can do more than one thing. And so, we have other things that we're working on as well. But at the aggregate level we still remain very focused, because if you look at our size versus the number of projects we have going, it's much smaller compared to most. But, that's how we do things, and that's how we get the level of quality that we want out of each one of those.

And so, the other things that you named, whether it be Apple Music or Apple Pay, both of these are very important to us. And things that you didn't mention: the Mac continues to perform very well. I'm still bullish on iPad. We've gotten -- with iOS 9, there is some incredible productivity enhancements coming in with split view and slide over and picture-in-picture. These things are incredible features.

The enterprise business is clearly picking up, and more and more companies are either contracting for or writing apps themselves. And, I believe that the iPad consumer upgrade cycle will eventually occur, because as we look at the usage statistics on iPad, it remains unbelievably great. The next closest usage of the next competitor, we are 6 times greater.

And so, these are extraordinary numbers. It's not like people have forgotten iPad or anything. It's a fantastic product.

So I see a lot of runway. And as I look geographically, where we have been doing really good in the emerging markets, our share is still not high in any of them and so there is a lot of headroom there as well, as there is in most developed markets as well. And so, I look around and I see opportunity left and right. That's what we're focused on.

JIM SUVA: Great. Thank you so much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Jim. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Steve Milunovich, UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Tim, there's some concern about what's going on in China with the stock market and economically. How do you think that plays out for Apple? On one hand, you've got more stores, broader distribution; the 4G infrastructure is playing out. On the other hand, the economy might be weakening.

Is a phone a discretionary purchase or not? How do you think about going forward in China?

TIM COOK: It's a very good question. We remain extremely bullish on China and we're continuing to invest. Nothing that's happened has changed our fundamental view that China will be Apple's largest market at some point in the future.

It's true, as you point out, that the equity markets have been -- have recently been volatile. This could create some speed bumps in the near term. But to put it in context, which I think is important, despite that volatility in the Chinese market, they're still up 90% over the last year and they're up 20% year to date. And so these kind of numbers are numbers I think all of us would love.

Also, the stock market participation among Chinese household is fairly narrow and the stock ownership is very concentrated in a few people who put what appears to be a smaller portion of their wealth in the market than we buy. And so I think, generally, this has been -- or at least as we see it, maybe it's not true for other businesses -- that this worry is probably overstated.

So we're not changing anything. We have our pedal to the metal on getting to 40 stores mid next year. As we had talked about before, we are continuing to expand the indirect channel as well.

As you point out, and I think this is a major point that many people miss, the LTE penetration in China is only at 12%. China doesn't possess the level of fiber that some other countries do, and so in order to get great video performance, et cetera, raising that penetration is really great. I think that really plays to an incredible smart phone future there.

Also, and I can't underestimate -- I can't overstate this: the rise of the middle-class there is continuing and it is transforming China. I saw a recent study from McKinsey that's projecting the upper middle class to grow from 14% to 54% of households over the 10-year period from 2012 to 2022, so we are within that period at this moment. And you can see -- for all of us that travel there so much -- with every trip you can see this occurring.

And so I think we would be foolish to change our plans. I think China is a fantastic geography with an incredible, unprecedented level of opportunity there and we're going to be there.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: I also wanted to ask, can you give us any more detail on the switching rate? How much is it up? And, I notice in your advertising there's the shift to the: if it's not an iPhone, it's not an iPhone. And I assume that while you're not as involved as Jobs was, you're approving these ads, so it seems like you're really focused on market share gain right now.

TIM COOK: I'm very familiar with the ads. In certain geographies, the way that we win is to get switchers. In other geographies, the way that we win is to get people to buy their first smart phone. In other geographies, the way that we win is to get people to upgrade from their current iPhone.

All of those are very important for us. In many geographies, it's two of those, or in some geographies, it's all three of those. And so all of those are important. We are very focused on growing iPhone around the world, not just in one geography, and getting our message out there through ads is one way to do that.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Steve. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. I wanted to talk about FX, but not necessarily from a direct impact. What are you seeing in terms of demand as you've raised prices in various geographies? And, how are you thinking about it as you go into the next iPhone cycle in terms of having to normalize the pricing for what some of the currencies have done over the past year?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, Shannon. Obviously, FX has been a significant hit in many ways, of course. It reduces our growth rates. We would be 800 basis points higher this quarter from the 33% that we've reported if it wasn't for the movement in currencies around the world.

Really, when you look around the world, if you exclude China, essentially every single currency has weakened against the dollar. We are pretty careful and thoughtful about where we increase prices and when and by how much [during] mid cycle, because it's not something that we particularly like to do. We've had circumstances around the world this year where, frankly, we didn't have many options because the currency movement was so large, and so we've had to reprice.

I have to say that it's been remarkable. Look, in the long run, a strong US dollar is not a positive for our international business. It's normal to see a drop in demand when prices go up. That goes without saying.

It has been remarkable so far to see that. We did take prices in a few markets, but remarkable to see how resilient iPhone sales have been because we have increased -- in spite of these price increases, we have increased sales and we have increased market share in all our geographies around the world without exception.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. And then, can you talk a bit about linearity during the quarter on a geographic basis? Somewhat going back to the China question. Did you see it slow down toward the end of the quarter or was it solid through it? And just any other color you can give geographically with Europe and some of the other macro events that are going on.

TIM COOK: Shannon, it's Tim. Maybe the best way to talk about this is at the product level. On the Watch, our June sales were higher than April or May. I realize that's very different than what some of the -- is being written, but June sales were the highest. And so, the Watch had a more of a back-ended kind of skewing.

The phone itself followed what I would call a normal seasonal kind of pattern. If you look at the -- it sounds like you're honing in on the greater China results themselves. There's no obvious impact for last quarter in the greater China numbers. Obviously, with the aggregate or the consolidated number being 112%, it's hard to find a lot of bad things in the numbers.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon.

A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes Store, as a webcast on www.Apple.com/investor, and via telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 9957771. These replays will be available by approximately 5:00 PM Pacific Time today.

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Kristin Huguet at 408-974-2414, and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
itablcm : Tablet Computers | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302011 : Portable Computers | i3454 : Personal Electronics | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | suva : Suva | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | fiji : Fiji | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150722eb7l005pm
  


 HD
 Q2  2015 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,967 words
   PD
27 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated second quarter FY15 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE INCORPORATED: Thank you, good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us.

Speaking first today is Apple's CEO, Tim Cook, and he'll be followed by CFO, Luca Maestri. After that we will open the call to questions from analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income expense, taxes, future business outlook and plans for dividends, share repurchases and public debt issuance. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast.

For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2014, the form 10-Q for the first quarter of FY15, and the forms 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the Associated Press releases. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INCORPORATED: Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. We have a lot of great news to talk about so I'll jump right in.

Today we are reporting our strongest March quarter ever with 27% revenue growth and 40% earnings per share growth year over year. We're seeing fantastic results for iPhone with revenue growth of 55% year on year and we're seeing a higher rate of switchers than we've experienced in previous iPhone cycles.

The success of iPhone has been extremely strong in emerging markets where unit sales were up 63% year on year. The App Store had its best quarter ever with a record number of customers making purchases, driving a new record for revenue and 29% year-on-year growth.

We also reached an all-time quarterly record of $5 billion in total services revenue. We also continued to defy the trend of declining global PC sales with double-digit Mac unit growth in a market that IDC estimates contracted by 7%.

We're now half way through FY15 and our year-to-date results have been simply staggering. We sold over 135 million iPhones, 34 million iPads and 10 million Macs in the first six months of the year. Our revenue has grown by 28% to over $132 billion, net income has increased 36% to over $31 billion and EPS has grown by 44%.

We're making many strategic investments in Apple's future, in research and development, in our supply chain and in our infrastructure. And we've made 27 acquisitions in the last six quarters. We're in the very fortunate position of generating more cash than we need to run our business and keep making these important investments. So today we're announcing another significant update to our capital return program, expanding its size to $200 billion through March of 2017 to reflect our strong confidence in what lies ahead for Apple. Luca will go into this in more detail in a moment.

We're also making great progress in many other areas. The Apple ecosystem continues to expand in exciting ways.

We're seeing great momentum with Apple Pay. Discover announced today that its card members in the United States will be able to make contactless payments in participating stores through Apple Pay beginning this Fall. And last month we said that the number of locations accepting Apple Pay has tripled and we continue to see great progress with merchants. Best Buy, which has been a long time strong partner of ours, has just announced that its now offering Apple Pay in App and later this year will offer Apple Pay in all of their US stores.

And merchants aren't the only ones jumping on board. Earlier this month a leading healthcare payment network announced acceptance of Apple Pay for its clients. So over 50 major hospitals across the country, including Stanford Healthcare and Aspen Valley, will accept Apple Pay this year for co-pays and bill payments at registration and check in.

We're also incredibly inspired by the momentum we're seeing in health-related solutions. Since we released HealthKit with iOS 8 last September, over 1,000 apps had been developed to transform how people track, manage and interact with their health and they're now available on the App Store.

Just this past weekend, Cedar-Sinai in Los Angeles turned on the largest HealthKit integration to date giving more than 87,000 patients the ability to share their health and fitness data seamlessly with their My CS-Link app, which syncs with their electronic medical record. And last month, we announced ResearchKit, an open source software framework that helps doctors and scientists gather data from medical research participants more efficiently and accurately using iPhone applications. The response so far has been simply amazing, far exceeding our expectations.

The first research apps developed using ResearchKit study asthma, breast cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and Parkinson's disease and have enrolled over 60,000 iPhone users in just the first few weeks of being available on the App Store. Over 1,000 researchers had contacted us expressing interest in performing studies through ResearchKit. We think these types of solutions have the potential to revolutionize medical studies in life changing ways and we're proud that Apple is helping make this possible.

Last quarter we also announced a major economic investment in Europe where we will spend $2 billion to build data centers in Ireland and Denmark. These will be our largest data centers in the world.

Apple is now responsible for creating over 670,000 jobs across the European continent. Most of them have grown out of the success of the App Store, which has generated more than $7.5 billion for European developers since just 2008. We feel great about the economic contribution we've been able to make in Europe.

The two data centers we're building will run on 100% renewable energy from day one. This is just part of the work we're doing to protect the environment and leave the world better than we found it.

Today, 100% of Apple's US operations and 87% of global operations are powered by renewable energy. Just before Earth Day we announced our plan to move to renewables in China. We're undertaking a groundbreaking partnership with several companies to build a 40-megawatt solar farm in Sichuan Province that will generate far more than the amount of energy used by all of our offices and retail stores in China combined.

We also announced an innovative new partnership with a conservation fund to permanently protect more than 36,000-acres of working forest in Maine and North Carolina to help offset the impact of our packaging has on the world supply of sustainable virgin fiber. Apple is deeply committed to these initiatives and will continue to make them a priority.

The June quarter is off to an exciting start with great new products and services. Three of them in particular are giving our customers a glimpse of the future and we are very happy with the reception that each of them is receiving.

First, the all new MacBook began shipping just over two weeks ago and we are very happy with the response we're getting from customers. The new MacBook is our lightest, most compact Mac notebook ever and you really have to see it to believe it. It features a stunning 12-inch retina display, a new force touch trackpad, all day battery life and a revolutionary new keyboard. We believe, and I think most everyone agrees, this is the future of the notebook.

Second, is the new streaming service from HBO, which is available on Apple TV and iOS. We teamed up with HBO last month to help launch HBO NOW, a standalone service that lets customers stream the content they love from HBO on the devises they love from Apple, all without requiring a subscription to cable. HBO NOW has been incredibly popular with Apple TV users since its debut and it has been one of the top downloaded Apps on the US app store as well.

And third, of course, is Apple Watch. Its been really great to see the reaction of customers since their watches began arriving on Friday morning. All around the world we've seen the excitement on social networks as people start using their Apple Watch. The response has been overwhelmingly positive.

Adding to the surprise and delight of Apple Watch are the more than 3,500 apps that are already available. Our developer community has already seen the potential in this new category and puts some of their best thinking in to what wearable technology can do. We can't wait to see more of the inspiring apps developers dream up for Apple Watch as we head into our Worldwide Developer Conference six weeks from now.

I'd like to thank all of those developers and our hundreds of millions of customers for their loyalty and support. I'd also like to thank all of the Apple employees around the world for their creativity, tireless effort and passion for delivering the very best products in the world.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Luca.

LUCA MAESTRI, CFO, APPLE INCORPORATED: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone.

As Tim mentioned, we just completed another outstanding quarter. Revenue for the March quarter was $58 billion, an increase of $12.4 billion, or 27% year over year. Growth was driven primarily by a very strong performance of iPhone and the continued strength of the App Store and Mac sales.

We achieved these terrific results despite growing foreign exchange headwinds. Our performance was particularly impressive in our greater China and rest of Asia Pacific segments. In greater China we established an all-time quarterly record for revenue which grew 71% year over year to $16.8 billion.

Gross margin was 40.8%, ahead of our expectations, mainly due to stronger than expected iPhone results. Operating margin was 31.5% of revenue and net income was $13.6 billion, a new Q2 record. Diluted earnings per share were $2.33, a 40% year-over-year increase and cash flow from operations was $19.1 billion, also a new March quarter record.

For details by product, I will start with iPhone. We sold 61.2 million iPhones in the quarter representing 40% year-over-year growth and demand for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus has remained incredibly strong. iPhone sales more than doubled in Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Vietnam and they were up 80% or more in several other markets including Canada, Mexico, Germany and Turkey.

The strong mix of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, combined with the popularity of higher capacity offerings, led to iPhone [iSBs] of $659, an increase of $62 year over year despite the very significant foreign exchange headwinds I already mentioned. We increased iPhone channel inventory by 1 million units during the quarter, which allowed us to get into the low end of our target range of five to seven weeks of channel inventory.

Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4.6 million Macs, representing 10% year-over-year growth, which is particularly impressive in the context of IDCs latest estimate of a 7% global PC market contraction. The growth was lead by portables and spurred by the updates to MacBook Air and MacBook Pro in March. We ended the quarter within our four to five week target range for Mac channel inventory.

Turning to iPad, we sold 12.6 million compared to 16.4 million in the year ago quarter. iPad sell-through was 13.7 million as we reduced channel inventory by about 1.1 million units coming off the holiday quarter. This left us within our five to seven week target range of iPad channel inventory.

We set a new March quarter record for iPad sales in Japan and an all-time record for iPad sales in China, but performance in other markets was more muted during the quarter. iPad turns five years old this month and, in every year since its introduction, it has been the number one tablet in sales, in quantity and quality of tablet apps, in usage and, most importantly, in customer satisfaction. And based on the latest data from NPD, iPad maintains a very strong leadership share in all of the price bands where we compete.

iPad has also consistently been the number one tablet in enterprise. A recent change wave survey found that among corporate buyers planning to buy tablets in the next six months, 77% plan to purchase iPads. In fact, we are seeing very high interest from companies who want to use iPads to transform how work gets done.

The vast majority of the app opportunities that have been identified as part of the Apple and IBM partnership are specifically for iPad. In addition to IBM, we're working closely with more than two dozen of the leading business software and solution providers, including Box, DocuSign, MicroStrategy, [Revel] and ServiceMax to bring a broad range of innovative mobile solutions to more customers on the iPad.

Turning to services, revenue grew to a new all-time record of $5 billion, an increase of 9% year over year. The growth was lead by the App Store, which remains incredibly popular with our customers around the world, with revenue up 29% in the March quarter. According to App Annie, the App Store generated 70% more global revenue in the March quarter than Google Play, up from a 60% lead in the September quarter.

Traffic to our retail and online stores was excellent with a 22% year-over-year increase in customer visits. We're progressing well with our plans for retail store expansion in greater China where we added 6 new stores in the past quarter alone bringing us to 21 stores in 11 cities. We're on track to add 40 stores open in greater China by the middle of next year.

Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $193.5 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $15.6 billion. Over $171 billion of this cash was offshore.

In the March quarter, we issued $6.5 billion US denominated notes and CHF1.3 billion Swiss franc denominated notes as we continue to diversify our global debt investor base. We now raised a total of $40 billion of term debt at very attractive rates.

We spent $7 billion to repurchase 56.4 million Apple shares through open market transactions, paid $2.7 billion in dividends and equivalents and utilized about $100 million to net share settle vesting employee RSUs. We also retired an additional 13.3 million shares during the quarter with the conclusion of the accelerated share repurchase program we launched last August.

We have executed our capital return program aggressively and we now take an action on over $112 billion of our over $130 billion program, including $80 billion in share repurchases at an average price of $85.

As we said consistently, creating value for shareholders by developing great products that enrich peoples lives will always be our top priority and the key factor driving our investments and our capital allocation decisions. With this framework in mind, Apple's Board and Management team continue to review capital locations regularly and we solicit input on our program from a broad base of shareholders. This process allows us to be thoughtful about the size, the mix and the pace of the program. We very much appreciate all of the input that many shareholders have provided us.

We continue to be in the fortunate position of being able to return significant capital to shareholders. We first announced our capital return program three years ago with an initial size of $45 billion and we've increased it annually since then.

Today we're announcing a third update to our program, expanding in size by the largest amount yet and extending its duration. The existing program was set to conclude at the end of this calendar year and we're now extending the program by five quarters to the end of March 2017.

Once again, with this update, we are allocating the maturity of the expansion of the program to share repurchases given our strong confidence in the future of Apple and the value we see in our stock. The Board has increased the share repurchase authorization by $50 billion, raising it from the current $90 billion to $140 billion. We will also continue to net share settle vesting employee restricted stock units.

We also understand that the dividend is very important to many of our investors and we are raising it for the third time in less than three years. The quarterly dividend will grow from $0.47 per share to $0.52 per share, an increase of 11%. This is effective with our next dividend, which the Board has declared today, and is payable on May 14, 2015, to shareholders of record as of May 11, 2015.

We believe this is a meaningful increase for the shareholders who value income and we continue to plan for annual dividend increases going forward. With over $11 billion in annual dividend payments, we're proud to be one of the largest dividend payers in the world.

In total, the size of our revised capital return program will increase by over 50% from approximately $130 billion to $200 billion. As we've done in the past, we expect to fund our capital return program with US cash, future US cash flow generation and borrowing from both domestic and international debt markets. And we plan to provide the next update on our program at about this time next year.

Now, as we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $46 billion and $48 billion compared to $37.4 billion in the year ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 38.5% and 39.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $5.650 billion and $5.750 billion. We expect [OI&E] to be about $350 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.3%.

With that let's open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you and we ask that you limit yourself to one, one part question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from Bill Shope of Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Okay. Thank you.

When we look at the effect of currency on your gross profit, which I think was far less than anyone anticipated, have you been able to reduce some of the pressure by adjusting terms with your suppliers? Or is that something we should expect to see more of as you progress through the year?

LUCA MAESTRI: Bill let me answer the question. Let me give you some numbers on the currency because I know it's a topic that is top of mind.

You're asking about gross margin. And you know we look at this on a sequential basis. And I mentioned during the call in January that we were expecting FX to have a negative impact on a sequential basis of about 100 basis points after the effect of the hedges. And that is exactly what happened in our actual results. So that was pretty much in line with what we were anticipating.

Of course we expect this headwind to continue. And on a sequential basis, when we look into the June quarter, we expect to see another 40 basis points of negative impact from currency.

We're dealing with these headwinds as -- they are part of business. And so we're dealing with them in many ways. We are looking at, in some cases, the potential to increase prices in certain markets. We're looking, of course, at our cost structures and we tried to remain as competitive as possible.

So we feel very good about the gross margins that we've generated in the March quarter. And we feel very good about the guidance that we provided, given the severity of the impact.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, great. And then as a follow-up, obviously -- I guess one of the incremental tailwinds to gross margin continues to be the iPhone upset relative to expectations. Could you give us a bit more color on the dynamics of the customer mix for the iPhone? You'd mentioned you're very excited about the new iPhone rate so far. But if you could just give us a bit more color as we had last quarter on folks that are new to iPhone, Android switchers, versus replacement?

TIM COOK: Bill, saw -- we continue to see a higher rate of switchers than we have seen in previous cycles. And so we are extremely excited about that.

We also continue to see a reasonable percentage of first-time buyers, particularly in some of the emerging markets. And if you look at emerging markets in general -- I think Luca covered some of this -- the revenue from emerging markets just for the March quarter was up 58% year-on-year. And so a big piece of what is driving that is iPhone. Obviously those results would have been higher without some of the FX headwinds that Luca mentioned earlier.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thank you. You've said in the past that the watch may take longer to ramp given the new category and new interface to customers. Is that, in fact, playing out? Is the watch ramping slower than past product categories? And then I have a follow-up.

TIM COOK: Katy, when you use the word ramp, do you mean from a -- I assume you're talking about supply?

KATY HUBERTY: Yes. Pre-orders and first week in sales and any other data points that you track in terms of interest versus, say, when the iPad launched in 2010?

TIM COOK: Let me talk about supply and demand and sort of separate those two. Right now demand is greater than supply. And so we are working hard to remedy that.

We've made progress over the last week or so and we're able to deliver more customers an Apple Watch over the weekend than we had initially anticipated. We're going to keep doing that. And so we've already sent some notes out today with moving other customers in verses what we had communicated to them previously. So I'm generally happy that the -- that we're moving on with the ramp.

It is a new product for us. And with any kind of new product, you wind up taking some time to fully ramp.

Having said that, I think we're in a good position. And by some time in late June, we currently anticipate being in a position that we could begin to sell the Apple Watch in additional countries. And so that's our current plan.

From a demand point of view, it's hard to gauge when you're -- you don't have product in stores and so forth. And so we're filling orders completely online at the moment.

The customer response from people that have gotten there's over the weekend have been overwhelmingly positive. And we're far ahead of where we expected to be from an application point of view.

To give you a comparison, when we launch the iPhone we had about 500 apps that were ready. When we launched iPad, we had about 1,000. And so our internal goal was to be able to beat the 1,000 level and we felt -- we thought it would be great if we were able to do that by a little bit.

And as I've mentioned before, we now have over 3,500 apps in the App Store for the watch. And so we couldn't be happier about how things are going from that point of view.

We are learning quickly about customer preferences between the different configurations. There's a much larger breadth of possibilities here for customers than in our other products. And in some cases, we called that well and some cases we're making adjustments to get in line with demand.

But I'm really confident that this is something we really understand how to do and will do. And so I'm really happy where we are currently and happy enough that we're looking forward to expanding into more countries in late June.

KATY HUBERTY: That's great. And then as a follow-up, research and development spend continues to track well ahead of revenue growth. And that has happened for many quarters now. Can you talk about what's driving that?

Is there a broader set of projects that you're working on? Are you making bigger bets, entering bigger markets? What's driving such a long period of elevated R&D spend?

LUCA MAESTRI: Katy, of course we said this several times now. We have -- when you look at our current product portfolio, it is much broader than it used to be.

We now develop two new iPhones over the year. We were not doing that a few years ago. We developed two iPads. And of course now we have the Apple Watch.

We also are developing some core foundational technologies, more in house now than we were in the past. And of course, we're also spending ahead of some of the products that we generate revenues in the future. So when you combine all these factors, that is the reason why you see these research and development increases year-over-year.

Research and development is the core of the Company. Innovation is the core of the Company.

And we're very proud of the fact that when you look, for example, at the last two quarters, the first half of 2015, our revenue growth has been higher than our OpEx growth. And when you look at our expense-to-revenue ratio, which for the first half of the year has been 8.2%, it's lower than it was a year ago and it's definitely something that we consider extremely competitive and we're very proud of.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay. Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Katy. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Piper Jaffray, we'll hear from Gene Munster.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon and congratulations. And, Tim, you mentioned there's more switchers versus previous cycles. Any thoughts on what that would mean or could mean for market share over the next few quarters and kind of the sustainability of the six cycle?

And then second question for Luca, in terms of any thoughts on what the margin impact from the watch as that ramps over the next couple of years? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Gene, if you look at the overall worldwide, we grew iPhone 40%. And IDC's estimate of the market for last quarter is 16%. So we grew 2.5 times.

And if you kind of look through at the different countries, in almost every country we grew at a multiple of the market. And as I've mentioned before, in emerging markets we did extremely well.

And so I feel really good about where we are and you can hopefully tell with the strong guidance that we provided that we're very bullish on the current quarter as well. And so I think things look very, very good. We're also pleased, in addition to the switcher number, that we're doing fairly well with first-time buyers, which is also a key metric for us. And so it's tough to find something in the numbers not to like.

LUCA MAESTRI: And, Gene, let me take your question on margins. I'll talk about Q3 because you know this is the period that we provide guidance for. And when we guided to 38.5% to 39.5%, which is slightly down versus our performance in Q2, and this is driven by a number of things.

First of all it's the loss of leverage from the sequential decline in revenue. This is typical of our seasonality.

There's a foreign exchange element and I mentioned before the negative impact on a sequential basis about 40 basis points. And also we're launching the Apple Watch.

Apple Watch is, not only a new product, but it's a brand new category with a lot of new features, a lot of new innovative technologies. And Apple Watch margins will be lower than the Company average.

GENE MUNSTER: One maybe quick follow-up, Tim, in terms of the base of iPhones that have upgraded, I think you provided a number last quarter on that. Is there any update to that metric?

TIM COOK: Yes, sure. Our current estimate is that about 20% of the active install base has upgraded to a 6 or 6 Plus. And so as I look at that number, that suggests there's plenty of upgrade head room in addition to we want to keep inviting over as many switchers as we can. So between both of those and the first time buyers as well, it seems really, really good right now.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Gene. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: And that will come from Toni Sacconaghi with Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. I just wanted to revisit the watch.

Tim, I think you said when you were talking about your new products, you said we're, quote, very happy with the reception. And in response to a previous answer you said, relative to demand, it's hard to gauge with no product in the stores.

I would say relative to other product launches where your commentary around demand was characterized by superlative after superlative, that assessment feels very modest. And part of the reason that I ask is, A, are we reading you right in terms of that? But if we look at consensus, consensus is expecting that Apple will ship more watches in its first two quarters than it did iPads, despite, as you said, very limited distribution in terms of only selling through your stores.

So I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about putting those demand comments in context, given that they do seem different from how you've characterized product demand for other products. And how, if at all, we should think about the modeling demand in the context perhaps of the iPad, which was your most recent significant new category? And then I have a follow-up please.

TIM COOK: I'm thrilled with it, Toni. So I don't want you to read anything I'm saying any way other than that. So I'm not sure how to say that any clearer than that.

And in any situation, whether it's the watch or in the past on iPad or on iPhone, when demand is much greater than supply, it's difficult to gauge exactly what it is. And so, as you know, we don't make long term forecasts on here. We maybe forecasts for the current quarter. And so I don't want to make any comment about the consensus numbers.

Honestly, I haven't even studied those. We've got enough to think about here.

I feel really great about it. The customer response, literally from what I've seen, is close to 100% positive. And so it's hard to imagine it being better.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. And I was wondering if, Luca, you or Tim, you talked about the watch having lower margins in the third quarter, which is surprising, A, I think in the context of price points that many people thought were higher and; B, in the context of what luxury watches sell for; C, I think in terms of what estimated margins might be on accessories like your watch bands.

So I'm wondering if you believe that the watch is -- watch's gross margins are being burdened by lower volumes and start up costs and that you believe that as a category, watch margins will be in total -- including everything else that you sell with it -- will be on a sustained basis lower than the Company average?

TIM COOK: Toni, we're not going to guide to or give projections of gross margins outside of the current quarter. And so what we have right now, which is a situation that I don't -- is not surprising to us, we knew we would be here -- is that the watch gross margins for the current quarter that we've included in the guidance that Luca's provided in the aggregate are lower than the Company average.

And so that, to us, is intuitive that they would be. And so I think we just have a -- we must be just looking at it through a different lens than you are.

TONI SACCONAGHI: I guess the question is, is there anything unique about it being in its first quarter that it's providing that margin profile?

TIM COOK: In the first quarter of any kind of product, you would always have learning and these sorts of things. We've had this with every product we've ever done.

And so, again, we're not guiding to what it will be over time. We're talking about what it is now.

But I would keep in mind that the functionality of the product that we're making is absolutely incredible -- the power of it. And I'd also say -- I haven't even seen those but generally there's cost breakdowns that come out around our products that are much different than the reality. I've never seen one that is anywhere close to being accurate. And so if that's the basis for your comment, I would -- I'd really dig on the data if I were you.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go to Shannon Cross with Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. Tim, can you talk a bit about what you're seeing in China with 70% year-over-year growth in greater China revenue and clearly very strong iPhone? And we can talk a bit about what consumers are saying, what the carriers are saying in terms of demand and opportunity -- just any color because clearly it's quite strong.

TIM COOK: Yes. Thanks, Shannon.

It was an incredible quarter. We were up 71% year-over-year. We set a record in China for revenues. We did that now in a quarter that included Chinese New Year. And so we had the help of the strong holiday season, much like the US has a strong season in December, China's is obviously in the March quarter.

iPhone led the way, was up over 70% year-on-year. And the current estimates from [Kantar] are that that would mean that we would gain more that 9 points of share on a year-over-year basis. And so we -- by everything I can see, we did extremely well.

The Mac also had a unbelievable quarter in China and I'm particularly very happy with this. The Mac unit sales were up 31%. And like the rest of the world, or most of the rest of the world, IDC is projecting that PC sales in China contracted by 5% last quarter. And so, once again, bucking the tide.

Also in China, consistent with the Company but at a much different rate, the App Store had a record quarter and grew over 100% year-over-year. And so you can see the iPhone, the Mac and the App Store adding. And with the iPad in the PRC, not in greater China but in the PRC, iPad had its best quarter ever, higher than all of the others and also grew in a market that contracted for the overall market. And so really and truly sort of everything you look at in China was extremely good.

We have been working significantly on expanding our ecosystem there. And so we added UnionPay as a payment option for customers.

We increased the iPhone point-of-sales to over 40,000 during the quarter. That's up about 9% year-on-year. And more importantly than the total number, we are in many more cities than we were before.

We worked on significantly on our online store and our online store revenue was up over three times year-over-year. As you probably heard us say before, we've opened several stores in China recently. We're now at 21 in greater China and we're on track, still, to achieve 40 stores by the middle of next year.

The online store will also be expanding from around 319 cities to where they can hit two-day delivery to 365 cities. So adding about 50 new cities by the end of this quarter.

And so the net is, we're adding, we're investing a lot across the board in our infrastructure, in our products, on partnering with different companies. The Chinese developers are coming on in significant numbers. We've now made payments to developers in greater China of almost $5 billion, over half of which was in the last 12 months. And so you can see this enormous momentum building in the developer community there as well.

And so lots of positive things. And as I've said -- as you've probably heard me say before, I've never seen as many people coming into the middle class as they are in China. And that's where the bulk of our sales are going. And so we're really proud of the results there and continue to invest in the country.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, great. That was helpful.

And then just a follow-up on the iPad side. What do you think it's going to take to re-accelerate iPads? The sell-through was better than the sell in this quarter. But are we seeing cannibalization from the iPhone 6 Plus and how are you sort of thinking about the IBM partnership as it relates to iPad? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Yes. I think number one, we have to stop having the situations where we sell-through more than we sell in. So we have to where we don't have to have an inventory correction. That was over a million units.

Two, have we had cannibalization? The answer is yes. We're clearly seeing cannibalization from iPhone and on the other side from the Mac. And of course, as I've said before, we've never worried about that.

It is what it is. That will play out and at some point it will stabilize. I'm not sure precisely when but I'm pretty confident that it will.

The IBM partnership I think is in its early stages in terms of bearing fruit here but everything I see I like on it. I'm a big believer in the ability for iPad to play in a major way in enterprise. And so I'm looking forward to seeing that play out as we move forward.

When you look at the underlying data, it makes you feel a lot better than the sales do. And so things like first-time buyer rates, the latest numbers from the US are somewhere around 40%. And if you look at China, they're almost 70%. And so these numbers are not numbers that you would get if the market were saturated. And so I continue to believe, even though I've seen different people write that, that I think that theory is not correct and do not see that.

We also see usage numbers that are off the charts -- so far above competition, it's not even in the same planet. And we see customer satisfaction at or near 100%. And so these kind of numbers, along with intent to buy numbers, everything looks fantastic -- the eCommerce numbers.

And so my belief is that as the inventory plays out, as we make some continued investments in our product pipeline, which we're doing, that we already had planned and have had planned for some time. Between that, the inventory playing out, the enterprise starting to take over, I think, still, I believe the iPad is an extremely good business over the long term. When precisely it begins to grow again, I wouldn't want to predict, but I strongly believe that it will.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. We'll take the next question please.

OPERATOR: From UBS we'll go to Steve Milunovich.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Luca, could you comment a bit about the factors that went into your decision on the capital return program, particularly the share repurchase part? For example, I would think you're pretty well done in terms of taking US cash down. So you are dependent upon cash flow in the US as well as debt.

And regarding debt, do you have a debt-to-EBITDA ratio in mind that you don't want to go over? Do you want to keep your AA rating? Is that important? Just other factors like capital spending needs -- just curious what your thinking was.

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, Steve. So the logic has not changed over the years.

We look at our business plans. We look at what we want to accomplish from a product perspective. We look at the capital needs that we have to run the business and to grow the business. And then we see that we are in this great position that we can return cash to shareholders.

We know Apple very well. We are very excited by the level of customer response that we got from our current portfolio. We're super confident about the pipeline of products and services that we have. And therefore, we believe that there is great value in our stock.

And that is the reason why, again, this year, we are allocating the majority of the increase, which is the largest increase that we've ever done. We are increasing the program by $70 billion, right? And the vast majority of that we are locating to the share repurchase because, again, we believe there's great value in the stock.

We also know and understand that we have several investors that value income and so that's important for us to increase the dividend. And as we said in the past, we plan to continue to increase the dividend every year. And as we said in the past, we will come back at about this time next year and give you another update to the program because we will have better information and we will be able to be very thoughtful about the size and the mix and the pace of the program.

From a funding standpoint, of course we have a very strong balance sheet. We do have some cash in the US. We will continue to generate cash in the US but definitely a good portion of the program will be funded through debt. We will raise debt both in the US and outside of the United States.

And of course we got a very, very strong balance sheet. We've got a very open dialogue with the rating agencies. And so we feel we still have a lot of room for us to fund the program. So we, from a balance sheet standpoint, we feel very, very comfortable with the program that we've announced today.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Kulbinder Garcha with Credit Suisse.

KULBINDER GARCHA, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. And my first question is for Tim.

Tim, on the point you made about the 20% [app space] being on 6 and 6 Plus, are we right in interpreting the comments that that substantially lower number than at this point in previous cycles? And that would, I guess, argue for just a longer period of growth as the opportunity to basically [upgrade].

And then also linked to that, just by the points you're making on reporting US iPhone users and features being higher, that number year-on-year that tends the first six months clearly growing significantly year-on-year, is that the right way of interpreting that comment? And then I have a follow-up, Luca?

TIM COOK: I missed the second part of your question totally. Can you get a little closer to your phone?

KULBINDER GARCHA: Oh. Sorry, yes. The second part of my question is the -- in the first six months of the 6 and 6 Plus, is the gross number of new users to Apple, whether it's new users or switches from Android, significantly growing year-on-year?

TIM COOK: I don't have the comparisons in front of me about the answer to either one of your questions. My understanding -- what you asked was is the 20% number that I'd mentioned in the question from Gene, how does it compare year-over-year? Is it a lot different? I don't know the answer to that off the top of my head.

As I look at the number, my point from bringing it up is that there's a lot of people that haven't upgraded to a 6 and 6 Plus. And so as I look at that, it screams that there's significant opportunity there and that's before thinking about switchers and first-time buyers.

KULBINDER GARCHA: Okay, great. And then for Luca, just on the gross margin decline from the March quarter to the June, I understand the currency point. I understand the iPhone a little bit bolder. I guess can you -- of the iPhone and the watch impact, can you help us -- is the decline equally attributed to both of those reasons or is there something different going on?

LUCA MAESTRI: Well let me tell you, so there are a number of reasons why our guidance for gross margins is lower than the actual for the second quarter. The first one is the loss of leverage because of the sequential decline in revenue.

We got the foreign exchange. We got, as you said, a lower iPhone mix and we got the Apple Watch. I think we'll leave it at that and we're not going to get into more specifics, but those are the four reasons that drive the sequential decline.

KULBINDER GARCHA: Thank you, Kulbinder. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: Hi, Tim. This is for you.

You mentioned something in your past comment that you thought a lot of the iPhone sales were going into the middle class and China. And I just wondering if you could elaborate on that and open it up, more broadly speaking, to the emerging geographies, if you have demographics that you could talk about for your iPhone, specifically, and where you think those phones are ending up. Because I think it does raise the questions as you look out over the next year or so, do you have the right price points for the demographic you're hitting?

TIM COOK: Here is what I would share with you, Keith, is that if you look in the emerging markets, our revenues were up 58% year-on-year. And this accounted for just slightly less than 40% of the Company's revenue.

If you look at BRIC within the emerging markets, BRIC countries were up 64% year-over-year. And so as I look at that without having market research data on the demographics that you're asking, it's clear to me that it has to be coming from middle class because the upper income earners, there's only so many of those. And you can't grow those kind of numbers without getting significantly into the middle class. And so I think that that's where we are.

I hope we're also beyond the middle class but I don't have the data to suggest that that's the case or not the case. But it's clear to me that the middle class statement has to be true.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Fair enough.

My follow-up, Tim -- I'm going to stay with you for a second -- if you could -- it sounds like HBO NOW is off to -- it sounds like it's a great opportunity today and as you look out. If you could just speak more specifically how we should be thinking about Apple as a conduit for something like HBO NOW and other products. Is that, A, a meaningful revenue opportunity without getting specifics? And/or is it more about selling incremental devises or is it about expanding the revenue pie as you look at opportunities like HBO NOW?

TIM COOK: Well first of all, I think it's about giving the customers something they want and giving it to them in Apple's classic ease-of-use -- with Apple's classic ease-of-use and in the product environments and the user interface that they're used to working in -- in this particular case in Apple TV. And so I think HBO, in particular, has some incredibly great content.

And so we're marrying their great content, our great product and ecosystem. And it's clear from looking at the early returns, we've only been at this for a couple of weeks or so, that there's a lot of traction in there.

And so where could it go? I don't want to speculate. But you can speculate probably as good as I can about where that can go. I think we're on the early stages of just major, major changes in media that are going to be really great for consumers. And I think Apple can be a part of that.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thanks, Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Keith. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on www.apple.com/investor and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and please enter confirmation code 8627838. And these replays will be available by approximately 5 p.m. Pacific Time today.

Members of the press with additional questions contact Josh Rosenstock at 408-974-2414. Financial analysts can contact [Joan Looper] or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150429eb4r0043a
  


 HD
 Q1  2015 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,320 words
   PD
27 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated First Quarter FY15 Earnings Release Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, APPLE INC: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking first today is Apple's CEO Tim Cook, and he'll be followed by CFO Luca Maestri. After that we'll open the call to questions from analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2014, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speaks as of their respective dates.

I'd also like to remind you that as we indicated in our last quarterly call, we're now including the results of our retail stores in the geographic segments where the stores are located. Retail is no longer classified as an operating segment.

We've also updated our product summary reporting, and we're now reflecting five categories of results: iPhone, iPad, Mac, Services, and Other Products. We've prepared schedules showing re-classifications of historical operating segment and product results for each of the last 12 quarters to conform to these new groupings, and they are available now on our website at Apple.com/investor.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today we're reporting an historic quarter, and I'm incredibly proud of everyone who contributed to the amazing results you're about to hear. Interest in Apple products is at an all-time high, with over 0.5 billion customer visits to our physical and online stores during the quarter.

Demand for iPhone has been staggering, shattering our high expectation, with sales of over 74 million units, driven by the unprecedented popularity of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. This volume is hard to comprehend. On average, we sold over 34,000 iPhones every hour, 24 hours a day, every day of the quarter.

The execution by all of our teams to achieve these results was spectacular. By the end of the quarter, our new iPhones were available in 130 countries around the world, making this our fastest and most successful roll-out ever.

Additionally, the App Store and the Mac each set new records for quarterly revenues. Mac units were up 14% to 5.5 million, while the rest of the PC market continued to decline. App Store revenues were up a remarkable 41%.

Demand was strong around the world. Fleury estimated that Apple products accounted for over half of all mobile device activations globally from the 19th to the 25th of December.

It was truly a momentous quarter for iOS. On November 22 we shipped our 1 billionth iOS device. It was a space gray 64-gigabye iPhone 6 Plus, which we've saved here at Apple. One billion devices is an almost unfathomable milestone, and we are all incredibly proud to be a part of it.

Apple's mission is to make the greatest products on earth and to enrich the lives of others. Through the success of iOS, we have provided hundreds of millions of people with powerful personal technology that is simple and fun to use. Our customers are using Apple products to transform education, discover new ideas for business, and express their creativity in ways that no one could have imagined when we sold the first iPhone less than eight years ago. It's amazing to watch, and it reminds us that people and great ideas are the reason we make the things we make.

Our strong overall performance in the December quarter resulted in total Company revenue of $74.6 billion, and earnings of $18 billion. Both of these numbers are all-time records for us, with revenues up 30% and earnings up 38% over last year. Due to our very large capital return activities, earnings per share were up even more, at 48% to $3.06, also an all-time quarterly record. Our results would have been even stronger absent fierce foreign exchange volatility.

We've also made great progress on a number of very exciting new initiatives to further strengthen our ecosystem. We've been blown away by the reaction to Swift, our new programming language. Inventing a new programming language is something very few companies can do, and we believe it will have a profound effect on our ecosystem.

Swift became available in September as part of the X code tools, and in the first month those tools were downloaded over 11 million times. A recent report from Red Mog showed that Swift has had unprecedented growth, and is quickly climbing the list of the most popular programming languages.

We've seen many of our developers choosing Swift as they build significant new projects, and we are seeing fantastic work with Swift going on in education. Very recently, Stanford University released their developing iOS 8 Apps with Swift course which was posted to iTunes University, making this amazing resource available to everyone in the world.

There has also been incredible interest in HealthKit, with over 600 developers now integrating it into their app. Consumers can now choose to securely share their health and wellness metrics with these apps, and this has led to some great new and innovative experiences in fitness and wellness, food and nutrition, and health care.

For example, with apps such as American Well, users can securely share data such as blood pressure, weight, or activity directly with physicians. Leading hospitals such as Duke Medicine, Stanford Children's and Penn Medicine are integrating data from HealthKit into their electronic medical records so that physicians can reach out to patients proactively when they see a problem that needs attention. With HealthKit and the iOS Health app, we believe we're just at the beginning of amazing new health and wellness solutions for our customers.

Our extensions of iOS in the home with HomeKit and in the car with CarPlay are also continuing to progress. And this year we are looking forward to amazing HomeKit-enabled products from several companies, and CarPlay-enabled vehicles from over 30 automotive brands.

Also, as you know, we introduced two new categories in the fall, and we're making great progress on both of them. Apple Pay is off to a very strong start, and the feedback that we are getting from both individuals and institutions is extremely positive. Today about 750 banks and credit unions have signed on to bring Apple Pay to their customers, and in just three months after launch, Apple Pay makes up more than $2 out of $3 spent on purchases using contact-less payment across the three major US card networks.

In merchants who already accept Apple Pay, the rates are even higher. Panera Bread tells us Apple Pay represents nearly 80% of their mobile payment transactions. Since the launch of Apple Pay, Whole Foods market has seen mobile payments increase by more than 400%.

You can use Apple Pay up and down Main Street, to pick up a prescription at Walgreen's or Duane Reade, get office or school supplies at Office Depot and Staples, and shop for groceries at national and regional stores from coast to coast, including BI-LO, Harvey's, Save Mart, Wegman's Food Markets, Whole Foods, and Winn Dixie, among others. More merchants are excited to bring Apple Pay to their customers, and adoption is strong.

Just today, USA Technologies announced they made Apple Pay available at about 200,000 places where everyday payments happen, including vending machines in businesses, airports, and schools, commercial laundry machines in colleges, universities, and laundromats, and parking meters and payment kiosks in lots across the country. Point-of-sale suppliers tell us they are seeing unprecedented demand from merchants, and all of our partners and customers simply love this new service. With all of this momentum in the early days, we are more convinced than ever that 2015 will be the year of Apple Pay.

Development for Apple Watch is right on schedule, and we expect to begin shipping in April. Developers are hard at work on apps, notifications, and information summaries that we call glances, all designed specifically for the watch's user interface. The creativity and software innovation going on around Apple Watch is incredibly exciting, and we can't wait for our customers to experience them when Apple Watch becomes available.

We're also making great progress in our partnership with IBM, and our collaboration is winning over new customers. In December, we delivered the first 10 mobile firsts for iOS apps for banking, retail, insurance, financial services, telecommunications, governments and airlines, making iPhone and iPad even more productive for enterprises by providing app and cloud services with IBM's big data and analytics capabilities.

Another 12 apps will be released this quarter, including three new industries: health care, energy and utilities, and industrial products. This will bring us to a total of 22 apps, and we're on track to have over 100 by the end of 2015.

In just over a month, more than a dozen enterprise customers have signed on as foundation clients to transform their companies with iPhone, iPad, and IBM Mobile First solutions, including Miami-Dade County, the seventh-largest county in the United States by population; and American Eagle Outfitters, which operates more than 1,000 retail stores and ships to over 80 countries worldwide. The list of new customers is expanding rapidly. IBM is engaged with more than 130 additional companies looking to empower their employees with Mobile First for iOS solutions, and the list keeps growing. We couldn't be more pleased with this partnership. In addition to all these initiatives, we have a robust product and services pipeline that we are very excited about, and we look forward to sharing more about them with you throughout the year.

In addition to the contributions we make to humanity through our products, we made great progress on important projects during the quarter, including ConnectED and Product Red. With ConnectED, we're focused on making a difference for students in communities who need it the most. We recently chose 114 schools across 29 states to receive an Apple ConnectED grant. Despite their economic challenges, all of these schools share a vision of what their students' lives would be like with Apple technology, and we're proud to help them bring that to life.

In December, we undertook our largest-ever initiative to help Product Red achieve the goal of an AIDS-free generation. To commemorate worlds AIDS day, we worked with some of our developer partners to create and donate the proceeds from 25 special apps. And we also contributed a portion of sales at our retail and online stores on two of the year's busiest shopping days. As a result, Apple's donation set a new record.

Delivering the results we're reporting today reflects months and years of focus and determination from teams across Apple, as well as our amazing developers and business partners. I'd like to thank all of them for their commitment and performance, and I'd also like to thank our incredible customers for their ongoing loyalty and enthusiasm. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Luca to discuss our December quarter results in more detail.

LUCA MAESTRI, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you Tim, and good afternoon everyone. In the December quarter we generated all-time record revenue of $74.6 billion, an increase of $17 billion, or 30% year-over-year. We achieved this exceptional performance despite significant foreign exchange headwinds from many currencies. Our growth was broad-based across the world, with revenue from developed countries up 20%, and revenue from emerging countries up 58%. The performance of our greater China segment was particularly impressive, with revenue up 70%.

Sales were well ahead of our expectations in a number of areas. The unprecedented demand for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, combined with our tremendously successful production ramp, allowed us to build and ship several million more iPhones than we had expected when we provided guidance back in October. Also Mac revenue and services revenue reached all-time highs.

Gross margin was 39.9%, above our guidance range, and operating margin was $24.2 billion, representing 32.5% of revenue, and our highest operating margin percentage in 10 quarters. Net income was $18 billion, surpassing our previous all-time record by almost $5 billion. This translated to diluted earnings per share of $3.06, a 48% year-over-year increase. Cash flow from operations was exceptional at $33.7 billion, also a new all-time record.

For details by product I will start with iPhone. We sold 74.5 million iPhones, an increase of 23.4 million over last year, representing 46% growth. IPhone sales grew strongly in both developed and emerging markets. Among many great results around the world, unit sales were up 44% in the US, and up 97% in the BRIC countries. Sales doubled year-over-year in China, our second largest iPhone market, as well as in Brazil and in Singapore.

Thanks to the popularity of iPhone 6 Plus and the increased value customers saw in our highest-storage capacity offerings, iPhone ASPs were $687, an increase of $50 over the year-ago quarter. This led to iPhone revenue growth of 57% year-over-year, with quarterly sales exceeding $50 billion for the first time ever.

We had a 200,000-unit decline in iPhone channel inventory during December quarter this year, compared to an increase of about one million iPhones during the year-ago period, and we were not able to reach supply/demand balance until this month. This left us below our target range of five to seven weeks of channel inventory on a look-forward basis. We're now working with about 375 carriers, representing 72% of the world's mobile phone subscriber base, and we have over 210,000 points of sale for iPhone across the globe.

Our customers love their iPhones. A December ChangeWave survey measured a 97% customer satisfaction rating for iPhone. A study published by Chitika Insights last month indicated that iPhone accounts for 53% of North American smartphone web traffic, almost twice the level of the next-closest brand. In the corporate market, ChangeWave found that among IT buyers planning to purchase smartphones in the March quarter this year, 77% intend to purchase iPhones.

Next I would like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.5 million Macs, an increase of almost 700,000 units over last year, a 14% growth rate. Thanks to the popularity of our stunning new iMac with Retina 5K Display, Mac ASPs increased by $58 sequentially, driving all-time record revenue for Mac of $6.9 billion.

We achieved double-digit year-over-year unit growth in both desktops and portables. These results are truly remarkable, given the contraction in the global PC market, which IDC estimates declined by 3% in the quarter. We have now gained market share for 34 of the last 35 quarters. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory slightly below our four-to-five week target range.

Turning to iPad, we sold 21.4 million units, compared to 26 million in the December quarter last year. Given the introduction of new iPads in October, we increased iPad channel inventory by 1.1 million units during the quarter, compared to an increase of about 2.1 million in the December quarter last year. This left us within our five-to-seven week target range of channel inventory on a look-forward basis.

Customer experience and usage data for iPad continue to be excellent. In a November survey, ChangeWave measured a 98% customer satisfaction rate for iPad Air, and also found that among people planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, 60% planned to purchase an iPad. Among businesses planning to purchase tablets, the intent was even stronger at 78%.

Chitika Insights' most recent report indicated that iPad users in North America generate over 70% of tablet-based web traffic, more than six times the web traffic of the next-closest competitor. Custora's latest e-commerce report indicates that iPad accounts for 82% of all US e-commerce transactions from tablets. All these results are consistent with usage data from the holiday shopping season. IBM's digital analytics benchmark service found that iOS devices accounted for more than twice the online traffic, and almost four times the e-commerce sales on Android devices during November and December.

The Apple ecosystem continues to thrive. Combining all of our services, revenue grew to $4.8 billion in the December quarter, a new all-time high, and an increase of 9% year-over-year. This record performance was driven primarily by the tremendous momentum of the App Store, with revenue growing 41% in the December quarter. Our iOS developers have earned over $25 billion from the App Store to date, and we're thrilled with their success. Total sales of media and software from iTunes were $2.6 billion, compared to $2.4 billion in the year-ago quarter.

Our direct channel performance was also outstanding. We welcomed more visitors than ever before, and generated record revenue in both our physical and online stores. We opened 10 new retail stores during the quarter, bringing us to a total of 447, 182 of which are outside the United States. We've opened two new stores this month in greater China, and we're on track to have 40 stores in greater China by mid-2016.

Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $178 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $22.7 billion. We completed our first international debt offering, issuing 2.8 billion euro-denominated notes at very attractive interest rates, and greatly diversifying our debt investor base.

We spent $5 billion to repurchase 46 million Apple shares through open-market transactions, paid $2.8 billion in dividends and equivalents, and utilized over $500 million to net share settle vesting employee RSUs. We also retired an additional 8 million shares in connection with our accelerated share repurchase programs.

We have now taken action on almost $103 billion of our $130-billion capital return program, including $73 billion in share repurchases, with four quarters remaining to its completion. In the last 12 months alone, we have returned over $57 billion to our investors.

We review our capital return program on an ongoing basis. We continue to solicit feedback from a broad base of investors, and we're on track to announce an update to the program in April, when we report our second-quarter results.

As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $52 billion and $55 billion, compared to $45.6 billion in the year-ago quarter. This represents a very significant revenue increase, despite growing foreign exchange headwinds from the continued strengthening of the US dollar against most currencies.

We expect gross margin to be between 38.5% and 39.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $5.4 billion and $5.5 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $350 million. And we expect the tax rate to be about 26.3%.

Also, today our Board has declared a dividend of $0.47 per common share payable on February 12, 2015, to shareholders of record as of February 9, 2015. With that, let's open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: We ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question, one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

First we'll hear from Shannon Cross with Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much, and nice iPhone numbers. Can you talk a bit, Luca, about currency -- how you're thinking about it, what it did this quarter, what it does to gross margin, what it's going to do during the year, because that's clearly a big topic of conversation?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, Shannon, I'll do that. I'll talk about Q1. I'll talk about what we're looking for Q2, and possibly even further, right? Obviously what we've seen during Q1 has been unprecedented movements in currencies. I would say during the course of the quarter the biggest impact came from the Japanese yen, the Russian ruble, but also from euro, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar. Our revenue growth during Q1 would have been 4 percentage points higher on a constant-currency basis. On a profitability standpoint, our hedging program partially mitigated the impact from the volatility in currencies.

As we look forward, and we look into particularly the March quarter, the foreign exchange headwinds will be stronger in Q2 than they were in Q1 for two main reasons. The first one is the fact that the US dollar has continued to appreciate against foreign currencies during the last few weeks. The other one is the fact that our existing hedges expire. They get replaced by new contracts at current levels, and therefore the protection that is provided to us by our hedging program diminishes over time.

What that means to us going forward for the March quarter is that revenue growth on a year-over-year basis in constant currency would be 5 points higher than what we are guiding to if it wasn't for the FX movements. In terms of gross margins, and you know that we look at gross margins on a sequential basis, the gross margin percentage after the offset that we're getting from the hedging program will be impacted by over 100 basis points.

Now having said that, we have factored the impact that I just described into the guidance that we provided to you. That's where we are right now. Of course, as you look further out, we do not provide guidance past the March quarter. But it goes without saying that at current levels, again, those headwinds will continue to become stronger for the reason I explained earlier, that our hedges continue to expire, they get replaced by new hedging contracts at current levels, and there is the impact that we would see during the course of the year.

It goes without saying, strong US dollar has a negative impact on our international business. Having said all that, we have provided what we believe is very strong guidance for the March quarter. We remain very confident about the portfolio of products and services that we have in the market today, and we remain very confident in the pipeline of products and services that we have.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. As a follow-up to that, can you talk a little bit about pricing power? Basically as you think about currency and euro movements, and then the contracts you have with the carriers, can you talk about maybe the opportunities to raise prices? I know it's something that a lot of companies are balancing right now.

LUCA MAESTRI: I think as you know, we prefer to adjust local pricing at the time of new product launches. That would be obviously our preference. That's what we do in normal times. When currencies move as much as they have in places like Russia, for example, sometimes we need to take mid-cycle action to realign pricing. We'll see what happens. As you know, currency markets tend to be very volatile, so we just want to understand a bit better what is happening.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From UBS we'll hear from Steve Milunovich.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. I wonder if you could address the mix of the iPhone 6 line. Specifically, how did the 6 Plus do? I don't know if you can give us a sense of relative to total units, maybe geographic skew, and also availability. Are you caught up on the 6 Plus?

TIM COOK: Steve, it's Tim. We don't report out the precise mix, but what I can tell you is that iPhone 6 was the most popular iPhone last quarter. Obviously to sell 74.5 million, they were really all popular, and all did well. There is clearly a geographic preference difference, where some geos would skew much higher on their preference to iPhone 6 Plus than other geos. It's something that is not consistent around the world. Both did incredibly well, and we're really proud of them, along with the iPhone 5S and C, as well, which continues to be in the lineup.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. Could you update us in terms of the sell-through relative to the reported numbers for the phone and the pad, and your previous plans to increase by roughly a week of channel inventory?

TIM COOK: From an iPhone point of view, as I think Luca covered, our channel inventory decreased from the beginning of the quarter by 200,000 units. That left us outside of our target range -- on the low -- outside the low end of the range, to be specific. We -- just recently we became in supply/demand balance on the 6 and 6 Plus in January. We were not able to reach a balanced state during our fiscal Q1.

On iPad, we increased channel inventory by 1.1 million units from beginning of the quarter to end of the quarter. That compares to the previous year when we increased to 2.1. Obviously that inventory was required because of all the new products that we announced on iPad with the iPad Air 2 and the iPad Mini 3 in the October time frame during the quarter. At the end of the quarter we were within the target range of channel inventory on iPad.

In terms of growing channel inventory, in particular on iPhone where we're outside of it, we wouldn't expect to see a large step function increase. We would expect it to occur more gradually over time than sort of an all-at-once type of thing. But we don't guide to channel inventory specifically, as you know.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Steve. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Morgan Stanley we'll go to Katy Huberty.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thank you. Not to dilute the fantastic performance in December, but can you talk a little bit about how you think about the sustainability of this very strong iPhone demand into 2015, particularly given that most carriers had access to that product during the quarter. Then I have a follow-up on margin.

TIM COOK: Yes. Sure Katy, it's Tim. You can see from the March guidance that we've given that we're incredibly bullish about iPhone going forward. We believe that it's the best smartphone in the world. Our customers are telling us that, the market is telling us that. We're doing well in virtually every corner of the world, and so we're very bullish that it does have legs. I would point out that only a small fraction of the installed base is upgraded. There's a lot more people within the installed base.

But I would also point out that we had the highest number of customers new to iPhone last quarter than in any other prior launch; and also that the current iPhone lineup experienced the highest Android-switcher rate in any of the last three launches, in any of the three previous years. We didn't look back to the other years, so I don't know about those. We see that we're appealing to new customers, both new to smartphone and new to iPhone, and people switching. We're very bullish on the product, and getting great feedback about the quality of the products we're shipping. We're very bullish.

The emerging markets, which has been a source of great questions over time, the growth was absolutely stunning in Brazil and mainland China, more than doubling year over year, which is a 3X to 4X what those markets were doing according to IDC. We entered the quarter with quite a bit of momentum.

KATY HUBERTY: Good. Luca, as you know, you typically enjoy component cost-downs and yield improvements as you move through a product cycle. Is there anything other than currency that keeps you from potentially walking the gross margins higher over the course of the year? Thank you.

LUCA MAESTRI: Hi, Katy. You're right, I mean on both fronts. We certainly expect more favorable costs in the March quarter than we've seen in the December quarter. It goes with our product cycle. The foreign exchange headwinds, as I was explaining to Shannon, they will be on a sequential basis a headwind of more than 100 basis points. If you were to exclude that foreign exchange impact, we would actually be guiding to sequential increase in margins.

The other element that is there, and it's very seasonal, it's always there, is the loss of leverage that we got from Q1 into Q2. When you look at our revenue guidance, we are guiding to a sequential decline between 26% and 30%, so you obviously have that loss of leverage. Without a doubt, the biggest headwind that we've got right now is foreign exchange. Having said all that, guiding 38.5% to 39.5%, we feel frankly very good about where we are right now in the cycle.

KATY HUBERTY: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go to Benjamin Reitzes, Barclays.

BENJAMIN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks a lot, appreciate it. Tim, obviously a lot of good questions about the great iPhone number, but I wanted to ask you about the Apple Watch -- shipping in April, a month or two later than I think you said originally, obviously probably not that big a deal. What's going on with that product in a little more detail in terms of the timing and your excitement for it? Maybe a little more color on other apps that could be available at launch? Any expectations you have for it would be great. Thanks a lot.

TIM COOK: My expectations are very high on it. I'm using it every day and love it, and I can't live without it. I see that we're making great progress on the development of it. The number of developers that are writing apps for it are impressive, and we're seeing some incredible innovation coming out there.

Just to clarify, what we have been saying was early 2015. We sort of look at the year and think of early as the first four months, mid as the next four months, and late's the final four months. To us, it's within the range. It's basically when we thought. Most importantly, we're going to be thrilled to start shipping it, because we've got a lot of customers that are wanting to get one.

BENJAMIN REITZES: Okay, great. Thanks, Tim. To follow-up in terms of China, how do you feel the momentum there is in terms of sustainability and versus some of the local competition, and as you navigate that market specifically going forward? Thanks.

TIM COOK: The local competition was obviously there this quarter, and has been there for many quarters before. The local competition isn't new. I think we did really well there. I'm very proud of how we're doing. I was there right after the launch in October, and the excitement around the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were absolutely phenomenal. You can see that in the results with mainland China being up 100% year on year despite not having a full quarter of sales since we launched in the second half of October.

You can tell that we're a big believer in China with looking at our investment. We're growing the number of stores. We'll hit 20 soon, and we're doubling that by mid-2016, as Angela said earlier, and Luca said in his prepared comments, as well. We're also growing the channel there. Our online store has expanded to over 350 cities now. In fact, our online revenues in China last quarter were more than the sum of the previous five years. It's an incredible market. I think people love Apple products, and we are going to do our best to serve the market.

BENJAMIN REITZES: Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Bernstein we'll hear from Toni Sacconaghi.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Yes, thank you. I was wondering if you could comment on your revenue guidance. Luca, as you mentioned the range is down 26% to 30% sequentially. I think if you look back over the last three or four Q1 to Q2s, revenues decline more in the 15% to 20% range. As you noted, your iPhone channel inventory is below your target range as well, so if anything, that might be going up. I'm wondering if you could just discuss a little bit what factors are contributing to this deeper-than-normal decline this quarter, particularly given your ongoing enthusiasm for the phone.

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, Toni, thanks for the question. It is a -- first of all, it's a 20% year-over-year growth. We're guiding at the top end of the range, so we obviously feel good about a 20% growth. As we look at it on a sequential basis, there's a couple of things I think it's important to point out. I mentioned the foreign exchange headwinds. They are there. We need to deal with them. But they obviously are a negative to revenue. Those are headwinds that we have this year and were not there a year ago. That's one factor. We've also said the manufacturing ramp that we've had this year in the December quarter has been the fastest that we've ever had. That's also a factor that impacts the sequential compare.

Then there's a couple of specific events that happened last year in the March quarter which are not going to repeat this year. One of them is the fact that last year in January we launched China Mobile and we had the subsequent channel fill for China Mobile that of course is not going to repeat this year.

We also had a very strong quarter in Japan in the March quarter a year ago, which was driven by very significant carrier promotional activities and a pull-forward of sales into the March quarter in anticipation of a consumption tax increase that took place on April 1. Again, that is not going to repeat. When you take those factors into account, I think that explains the sequential decline that we see this year. Again, I want to point out to the 20% year-over-year growth.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay, thank you. Luca, just to confirm, sequentially my math is saying it's about a 2-point incremental revenue headwind. Is that the right way to think about it?

LUCA MAESTRI: From FX?

TONI SACCONAGHI: Yes, currency, FX sequentially.

LUCA MAESTRI: Correct.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. Tim, I was wondering if I could have my -- direct my follow-up to you, which is the iPad. You've spoken on prior calls about your enthusiasm for the product on a go-forward basis. Over the last year it's down double digits from a unit perspective and ASP has also been declining. I was wondering if you could comment on whether your bullishness about the iPad persists? Is it really -- do you believe it's a replacement cycle that we will ultimately see that will start to drive growth, or is there really innovation and product that is both necessary and forthcoming that's going to drive that growth?

TIM COOK: Toni, I am still very optimistic and bullish on iPad over the long run, as I've indicated before. When you measure it in these 90-day clips as we do, in the short run I don't think you're going to see a miraculous change in the -- or an improvement in the year over year.

But here's what I see when I look at it, and the reason that I'm so optimistic. I see that the first-time buyer rates are very high. By very high, I mean that if you look in some of the developed markets like the US, Japan, the UK, you would find that 50% of the people are buying an iPad for the first time. If you look in China, it's over 70%. When you have that kind of first-time buyer rates, you don't have a saturated market.

When I look at the customer sat on iPad, it's literally off the charts -- in some cases 100%, which is unheard of in surveys to get these kind of customer sat ratings. When I look at the usage, the usage is six times our nearest competitor. The usage as measured in web browsing is like 71% of total tablets, as I think Luca covered earlier. Also, the commerce taking place across the iPad is enormous. Essentially, over 80% of the commerce on tablets are taking place on iPad.

When I back up and look at all of these, I believe that over the long arc of time that the iPad is a great business. I also have visibility, obviously, to what's in the pipeline, and feel very good about that. That said, I'm not projecting, to be clear with everyone, I'm not projecting something very different next quarter or the next. I'm thinking over the long run.

In terms of what I think is going on, I think what you said is absolutely true that the upgrade cycle is longer. It's longer than an iPhone, probably between an iPhone and a PC. We haven't been in the business long enough to say that with certainty, but that's what we think. There is probably some level of cannibalization that's going on with the Mac on one side and the phone on the other. You probably have a little bit of that, that is shaking out. How much, very hard to tell in the early going, particularly since we just shipped the new phones a few months ago. I think there's some things like that that are going on.

On the other side, I think the partnership with IBM and the work that we have going on in the enterprise is profound. I think we're really going to change the way people work. I'm really excited about the apps that are coming out and how fast the partnership is getting up and running. I think that can move the dial there. I'm not predicting the 90-day clips and so forth, but over the long arc of time, I really believe that iPad is a great space, a great product, and with also coupled with the product innovation we've got, I think there's a very bright future for it.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go to Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon and congratulations. A couple questions for Tim. First, any updates on Apple TV, or your broader vision in the living room? Second, a high-level question about Apple Pay. You've outlined some of the successes at point of sale. Can you talk a little about if N App is important, or how important that is, and potentially how the product could evolve over time? Could you see this becoming more consumer to consumer, more a broader payment platform? Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes. Gene, on Apple TV, we had a solid quarter with the existing product. We've sold over 25 million Apple TVs now. At the sake of repeating myself, it's something that we continue to look at and work on, and find a way that we can make an even greater contribution than what we're doing.

On Apple Pay, both the contact-less payment and the N App are both important. I think they're both huge opportunities. I think they'll play out differently in different geographic regions as to which one is larger than the other, and likely the mix of those things will change over time, as more and more commerce flows across apps and so forth.

In terms of how it evolves, I think we're in the first inning on it. We haven't even completed the first inning yet. There's tons of things on our road map of adding functionality to it. We're obviously -- we're just in the US right now, so there's tons of countries to go to. There's not a day that goes by that I don't get notes from many businesses outside the US wanting Apple Pay, banks and merchants. Of course, we still have a lot of merchants left in the US.

But I have to tell you that given that we launched in October, I'm actually unbelievably shocked, positively shocked, at how many merchants were able to implement Apple Pay in the heart of their holiday season, because generally most people sort of lock down and don't do very much. We were able to get this in a lot of different merchants, and I give them a lot of credit for that.

But I think we're just on the front end. I think this is the year of Apple Pay. Some of the things you mentioned and others are all things that we're looking at, and in many cases working on, in terms of where it can take us.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

TIM COOK: Thanks, Gene.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Gene. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From JPMorgan we'll go to Rod Hall.

ROD HALL, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hello. Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to start off, Tim, you talked about the small number of the user base who have upgraded to iPhone 6 or 6 Plus. I wonder if you could give us a little more color on that? Maybe even go as far as quantifying how many of the base you think have upgraded? Also, talk a little about the pattern of upgrades. Are they all tending to be older iPhones, or is there a good spread? Can you give us any further color on that? Thanks.

TIM COOK: It's a small fraction. It's a number that's in the mid-teens, or barely in the teens. When I look at that, I say that there's an enormous amount left. Given there are a fair amount of Android units out there, there's also an enormous amount of Android customers that could switch. I'd also remind you that there's a lot of people that have not yet bought a smartphone. I know it doesn't feel like that when you're sitting in the United States, but from a worldwide point of view, there's still lots of them. I see all three of those groups there, and I'm very excited about all of them, and serving all of them.

ROD HALL: Okay, great. Thank you. My follow-up I'd like to direct at Luca. Luca, I wonder, could you talk a little about the duration of the hedge contracts, and the renewal pattern that we should expect to see this year? Remind us what your typical renewal pattern is, and will you be accelerating that this year, given all the currency movements?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, Rob. Typically, we have a pretty active hedging program, so we're in the market almost every day. But we tend to hedge 3 to 12 months out. There are cases where maybe we tend to go a bit longer if we feel that we have a strong conviction about certain currencies. Otherwise, again, the typical period is 3 to 12 months.

As hedges roll off, we replace them with new hedges. We take into account the exposures that we have around the world, take into account our most recent forecasts, and we hedge accordingly. We feel very good about our hedging position and the decisions that we've made, particularly during the summer, when we felt that maybe we needed to hedge a bit more than we have done historically.

TIM COOK: It's probably worth pointing out, too, that there's some markets where we can't economically hedge.

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes. There are some exposures where the cost of hedgings is prohibitive or financial instruments are not there to hedge. In those cases, of course, that's where you get the full impact of the volatility.

ROD HALL: Great. Okay, thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rod. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From RBC Capital Markets we'll go to Amit Daryanani.

AMIT DARYANANI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. I just had two questions, one maybe just on the gross margin side. I want to understand the 100 basis points of headwind that you're talking about in the March quarter, is that -- there's still some protection on the hedges, or is that a raw number with no hedges in place?

LUCA MAESTRI: That's correct, it's a good clarification. I was talking about the net impact after the hedges. The impact without hedges would be higher. Again, this is sequentially, right, because on a year-over-year basis actually the impact is larger, given the fact that currencies have moved during the last 12 months. But the 100 basis points that I quoted includes the mitigating impact of the hedging program.

AMIT DARYANANI: Got it. When you think about the iPad and you talked about the IBM partnership where you're seeing some traction, could you talk about what sort of penetration do you think iPad has on the enterprise side right now? How do you see that improve over the next few quarters as you roll out more of the Mobile First modules with IBM?

TIM COOK: We think -- well, we know -- that if you look at the Fortune 500 as an example, we're in essentially all of the Fortune 500 companies. The issue is not that, and it's not a market share number, because our market share is extremely high. The issue is that enterprises generally speaking are only deploying iPads to a small percentage of their workforce.

The real opportunity is to bring mobility into the enterprises and change how people work. In order to do that, you obviously need apps that are written to specific jobs, not just apps that are general productivity apps like word processors and spreadsheets and presentation tools, et cetera. That's one of the things that working with IBM provides us, is both that and the knowledge of the verticals, which they bring a significant amount of knowledge on all of the verticals that I mentioned earlier.

Where can we take that to? I think if we can really change the way people work, I think the opportunity is enormous. We're not hanging numbers out there to be measured on at this point. But we don't do a lot of big partnerships, as you probably know. When we do one, it is significant and it's because we really believe in it. We really believe in this one, and what it can do for customers.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Amit. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Deutsche Bank we'll hear from Sherri Scribner.

SHERRI SCRIBNER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, thank you. Luca, I was hoping you could give us some detail on your expectations for operating expenses going forward. I know you've been investing pretty significantly in new products, but wanted to see how we should think about those trending over the next couple quarters? Thanks.

LUCA MAESTRI: Sherri, as you know, we provide guidance just for the upcoming quarter. From what you've seen from our guidance for the March quarter, we're guiding to a growth in OpEx on a year-over-year basis that is similar to what we've experienced during the course of the December quarter. We obviously feel good about the business during the December quarter.

Our revenue exceeded in terms of growth our growth in operating expenses. There's going to be quarters where the opposite is going to happen. Our expense-to-revenue ratio during the December quarter was 7.4%. It was the lowest that we've had in two years. It's among the lowest ratios that we've ever had. But obviously we're investing in the business, and we will never under-invest in the business.

The majority of the increase will continue to come from R&D, given the fact that we've expanded our product portfolio, and we're making investments all the time ahead of the revenue that will be generated in the future. We also expect to continue to invest in marketing and advertising. We are expanding distribution all over the world. We're taking our brand to more places, and we continue to open new retail stores around the world. The idea for us is to continue to invest in the business, making the right trade-offs, and the results from the December quarter give us very good confidence for the future.

SHERRI SCRIBNER: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Sherri. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go to Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Okay, thank you. I wanted to follow up on your previous comments on the iPhone and the customer composition for the quarter. Considering the iPhone 6 Plus brought you into an entirely new segment of the smartphone market, can you give us a bit more color on the customer composition for this device specifically? You mentioned the differences in geographic adoption, but how about on the Android switcher comments you made earlier, and first-time adopters relative to the traditional iPhone 6 and your other iPhone models in the past? Related to that, what do you think this tells you about your ASP and unit opportunity for growth in 2015?

TIM COOK: Bill, at this point in the -- just shortly after the quarter, we don't have all of our research in from all the people that bought last quarter yet. But in the aggregate, as I've mentioned before, we saw more new customers to iPhone than we had ever seen before. We had a higher rate of Android switchers than we had in the three previous launches. It's not that we had more in the fourth, and I don't know what those numbers are. It wasn't something we were looking at.

Between the switchers and the people that are just new to smartphones and selected an iPhone, and our upgrades, which we're very happy with but represent a small fraction of our installed base, we feel really great about what's in front of us.

BILL SHOPE: Makes sense. Then a follow-up on your Apple Pay commentary. When we look at the opportunity outside of the US, are there unique hurdles we should consider as we think about the timing of the roll-outs in Europe and Asia, or is it really just about pulling the partnerships together?

TIM COOK: Each is a different implementation. In some ways there's a different set of carriers in every country, there's a different set of banks in a lot of the countries. Some of the processes with the merchants are different. It's an area where there's quite a bit of difference country to country to country. There's clearly heavy lifting involved to scale. However, it's not something that scares us, or that's preventing us from viewing it as a big opportunity.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are (888) 203-1112, or (719) 457-0820, and please enter confirmation code 8259681. These replays will be available by approximately 5 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Kristen Huget at (408) 974-2414. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with addition questions. Joan's at (408) 974-4570, and I'm at (408) 974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150129eb1r006bu
  


 HD
 Q4  2014 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,495 words
   PD
20 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to this Apple Incorporated fourth-quarter FY14 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us.

Speaking first today is Apple CEO, Tim Cook, and he'll be followed by CFO, Luca Maestri, and after some final remarks we'll open the call to questions from analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts.

For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2013, the Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of FY14, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

And I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE, INC.: Thanks, Nancy.

Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Since we spoke in July it's been an exciting and very busy time so we have lots of great things to talk about today.

Just last month we launched the biggest advancements in iPhone history with iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. These iPhones are the best we have ever created and customers absolutely love them. Our operational team has done an extraordinary job executing the manufacturing ramp throughout the entire supply chain.

To date we've launched in 32 countries including China, and our new iPhones will be shipping in 69 countries and territories by the end of this month making this our fastest and most successful iPhone launch ever. Demand for the new iPhones has been staggering and geographically broad-based, markedly higher in every single country where we've launched compared to the iPhone 5s a year ago. We're working hard to fill orders as fast as possible and we're on track to be in more than 115 countries by the end of December.

Last month we introduced two new categories. The first is Apple Pay, an entirely new way to pay for things in stores and in apps. It makes mobile payments easier, more secure and more private. Apple Pay went live today and now making purchases in participating stores happens with just the touch of a finger. Paying within apps is as easy as selecting Apple Pay and placing your finger on touch ID.

Today Apple Pay supports credit and debit cards from the three major payment networks and the top US banks and over 500 additional banks have signed on and will be supporting Apple Pay beginning this year and early next year. Apple Pay is being supported by many of the nation's top retailers and we continue to sign more retailers.

The second new category is Apple Watch, our most personal device ever and one that has already captured the world's imagination. We can't wait to get Apple Watch to customers beginning in early calendar 2015. We'll be providing more details on Apple Watch as we get closer to the shipment date.

Last week we launched the new iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3 with innovations that make them dramatically better than previous generations and the stunning new iMac with a Retina 5K Display. We released iOS 8 last month and our customers are enjoying new ways to use their iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch with intuitive new features and groundbreaking security.

Last week we also released OS X Yosemite with an all-new design and continuity features that deliver an even more fluid experience across all of our iOS devices and Macs. These introductions reflect years of innovation and hard work by teams all across Apple and they demonstrate the seamless integration of hardware, software and services that provides unparalleled user experiences for our customers. These are things that only Apple can do.

We've also communicated and demonstrated our commitment to respecting and protecting users' privacy with strong encryption and strict policies that govern how our data is handled. Today we're also reporting very strong results for Apple's fourth fiscal quarter. We generated our strongest revenue growth rate in seven quarters far surpassing our expectations we communicated in July and establishing a new record for Apple's September quarter revenue.

We're also reporting gross margin of 38% compared to 37% last year, leading to a very strong EPS growth of 20%. Fueled by the launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, and strong demand for our previous iPhone models, we set a new September quarter record for iPhone with revenue growth of 21% year over year. Demand for iPhone was strong across all geographies with global unit sellthrough growth of 26% and we exited the quarter with significant backlog for both iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.

We established an all-time quarterly record for Mac sales with revenue growing 18% year over year thanks in particular to the very strong performance of our portables. We're especially proud of our Mac results considering the overall contraction of the global PC market this year and we achieved our highest quarterly market share since 1995.

We also set an all-time record for the App Store revenue thanks to the tremendous momentum and ongoing success of our developer community. App store revenue grew 36% over last year, and cumulative app downloads have now topped 85 billion. These results bring to a close a record-breaking FY14. Over the last four quarters our products and services have generated $183 billion in revenue, an increase of $12 billion over last year.

We sold 243 million iOS devices and 19 million Macs, both all-time highs. Our revenue from iTunes software and services reached $18 [billion], which is more than the annual sales of two-thirds of the companies in the Fortune 500. And we generated $6.45 in earnings per share, which is 14% higher than last year and also set a new record.

We've made big investments in our business and have continued to expand our global footprint. Today we have 437 Apple retail stores in 15 countries and our partners are selling Apple products in hundreds of thousands of locations around the world. We're continuing to invest in developing markets where revenues approached $50 billion in FY14, up 16% over last year and twice the rate of growth of the Company overall.

We forged a landmark partnership with IBM to provide a new generation of mobile enterprise applications designed with our product's legendary ease-of-use and backed by IBM's cloud services and data analytics. Our partnership aims to redefine the way work gets done, address key industry mobility challenges and spark true mobile-lead business change. Developer teams have been working closely to develop the first wave of mobile first solutions and these solutions will be ready for customers beginning next month across six sectors: banking, government, insurance, retail, travel and transportation and telecommunications.

We've brought tremendous new talent and technology into Apple through 20 acquisitions in FY14, including 7 alone in the September quarter. We closed the Beats transition in July and we're off to a great start with some wonderful plans we'll share with you in the future. Our strong results continue to generate significant cash and we're extremely happy that this has enabled us to make substantial investments in Apple's future, while retaining -- while returning cash to our shareholders.

We've executed aggressively against our share repurchase programs spending $17 billion in the September quarter alone and $45 billion in the last year. In addition to Apple's strong business performance over the past four quarters, I am incredibly proud of all of our work to protect the environment, to advance human rights, to improve working conditions in the supply chain, and to change the way teachers teach and students learn.

I'd like to thank all of our customers, employees, developers, and business partners for making FY14 Apple's best year yet. And I'd like to thank all of our shareholders for their continued support. I could not be more excited about the road ahead in FY15.

With that I'd like to turn the call over to Luca to discuss our September quarter results in more detail.

LUCA MAESTRI, CFO, APPLE, INC.: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone.

During the September quarter we generated record revenue of $42.1 billion, an increase of $4.7 billion or 12% year over year. This result exceeded our guidance range due to better than expected sales of iPhones and Macs for which customer demand grew strongly year over year in all our segments.

Gross margin was 38% at the high end of the guidance range. Operating margin was $11.2 billion, representing 26.5% of revenue. Net income was $8.5 billion, a new September quarter record, translating to diluted earnings per share of $1.42, a 20% year-over-year increase.

Cash flow from operations was very strong, at $13.3 billion, also a new Q4 record. For details by product I will start with iPhone.

We sold 39.3 million iPhones an increase of 5.5 million over last year or 16% growth, underlying demand was even stronger with sellthrough growth of 26%. iPhone sales grew across both developed and emerging markets. Unit sales in the US grew 17% year over year and in Western Europe they were up 20%. We saw even stronger growth in Latin America and the Middle East with sales up more than 50%, and in central and eastern Europe, where sales more than doubled.

We increased iPhone channel inventory by just under 1 million units during the September quarter this year significantly less than the 3.3 million unit increase in the September quarter a year ago. Based on the very strong demand for our new iPhones, this left us below our target range of 4 to 6 weeks for channel inventory on a look forward basis.

iPhone momentum in enterprise markets remains very strong. The latest data published by IDC indicates that iPhone has 69% share of the US commercial smartphone market. Also in August, ChangeWave survey of US corporate IT buyers found that among those planning to purchase smartphones in the December quarter, 75% plan to purchase iPhones.

And iPhone continues to fuel innovation at companies around the world. Schindler, a leading global escalator and elevator manufacturer, has deployed over 20,000 iPhones and 20 custom apps to improve customer engagements for sales teams and to allow service technicians to access vital documentation repair and safety functions when they're in the field.

Baidu, China's top service search provider, currently has 20,000 employees using iPhones and the company has developed over 30 in-house iOS apps to help its employees work more efficiently, track sales leads and manage internal IT infrastructure and processes.

Next I would like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.5 million Macs, an increase of almost 1 million over last year. That represents 21% growth year over year and an all-time quarterly record. We saw great demand in the back-to-school season for both desktops and portables with especially strong growth from MacBook Pro and MacBook Air.

We achieved double-digit Mac growth across most markets around the world with particularly impressive performance in emerging markets where Mac sales were up 46%. These results are truly remarkable given the contraction in the global PC market and we now gain market share for 33 of the last 34 quarters. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory slightly below our 4 to 5 week target range.

Turning to iPad we sold 12.3 million units, compared to 14.1 million in the September quarter last year. In anticipation of our October new product announcements, we reduced our iPad channel inventory by 500,000 from the end of the June quarter, which left us within our target range of channel inventory on a look-back basis.

iPad sales were consistent with our expectations and we experienced very strong results in Japan where iPad sales were up 46% year over year. Customers continue to love their iPad. In an August survey by ChangeWave, iPad Mini with Retina Display earned an incredible 100% satisfaction rate and among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days the survey indicated a 55% plan to buy an iPad.

We continue to see strong momentum in enterprise for iPad, progressive IT organizations around the world continue to deploy, manage and develop amazing in-house apps for iPad. Healthcare leader Sanofi has over 25,000 iPads and over 450 in-house apps for sales teams and corporate employees to get their products and information into the hands of doctors and other healthcare providers.

Premium eyewear designer group Softica, has deployed over 10,000 iPads to improve how customers experience the size, fit and overall look of eyewear in a retail environment. Importantly, since the announcement of the partnership with IBM, hundreds of corporations around the world have expressed interest in MobileFirst solutions. And we are actively working with over 50 of them to become foundation clients for MobileFirst solutions in their industries.

iPad continues to lead the US education tablet market with 90% share based on the latest data from IDC. In the September quarter the St. Paul public schools in Minnesota purchased over 22,000 iPad Airs and over 5000 iPad Minis in the first phase of the district's personalized learning through technology plan that will ultimately equip every student with an iPad.

The Apple ecosystem continues to thrive. Our iTunes store generated all-time record billings of $5.4 billion in the September quarter, up 22% year over year thanks to the tremendous momentum of the App Store. Developers around the world have embraced the iOS platform and keep broadening the appeal of our thoughtfully designed app store to our large, loyal and engaged customer base.

Across all of our programs, the number of registered app developers has grown by 22% in the last year, and we are rapidly approaching 10 million. We are seeing especially strong interest in the enterprise where the number of registered developers is up 39% over a year ago.

Our retail stores also generated strong results. Revenue for the quarter was $5.1 billion up 15% from a year ago and a new September quarter record.

We opened 10 new stores and completed the remodels of 3 stores during the quarter ending with a total of 437 stores, 41% of which are outside the United States. We are projecting a total of approximately 25 new store openings in FY15, about three quarters of which will be outside the US. We also plan to remodel about five stores over the course of the year.

With an average of 432 stores open in the September quarter, average revenue per store was $11.9 million, compared to $10.9 million in the year-ago quarter. We hosted 102 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, which translates to over 18,000 visitors per store per week.

Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $155.2 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential decline of $9.3 billion. We have continued to execute our capital return program aggressively with a total spend of over $20 billion in just the September quarter.

We launched our fourth accelerated share repurchase program at the end of August spending $9 billion. We also spent $8 billion to repurchase 81 million Apple shares to open market transactions, paid $2.8 billion in dividends and equivalents, and utilized over $300 million to net share sell vesting employee's at its use.

So we've already taken action on over $94 billion of our $130 billion capital return program, including $68 billion in share repurchases with five quarters remaining to its completion. We remain firmly committed to our objective of delivering attractive returns to shareholders through both business performance and return on capital.

As we said before, we review our capital allocation regularly. We have solicited feedback on our capital return program from shareholders in the past and we will continue to do so. We plan to report on our conclusions in a timeframe similar to last year.

Now, as we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $63.5 billion and $66.5 billion, compared to $57.6 billion in the year-ago quarter. This represents a double-digit revenue increase despite significant foreign exchange headwinds from the recent strengthenings of the US dollar against most currencies.

We expect gross margin to be between 37.5% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $5.4 billion and $5.5 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $325 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.5%.

Also, today our Board has declared a dividend of $0.47 per common share, payable on November 13, 2014, to shareholders of record as of November 10, 2014.

With that I will hand it over to Nancy for some final remarks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Luca.

We'd like to let you know about some reporting changes that we'll be making beginning with the release of our Q1 2015 results. First, to better serve our customers and optimize our results around the world, we are collaborating like never before across our direct and indirect channels.

Accordingly, beginning in Q1 2015, we'll be including the results of our retail stores in the geographic segments where the stores are located providing a consolidated view of regional performance that is consistent with the way our executive team measures the business. This means that, going forward, our reportable segments will be the Americas, Europe, greater China, Japan, and the rest of Asia-Pacific with retail no longer classified as a segment.

Second, to better reflect our evolving products and services, we'll be making some changes to our product summary reporting. We will continue to report iPhone, iPad and Mac as separate line items and we'll also have a category that we refer to as services and this will encompass everything we report under the heading of iTunes, software and services today including content, apps, licensing and other services, and, beginning this month, it will also include Apple Pay.

We'll be creating a new reporting category called other products. This will encompass everything we report in the accessory category today, including Beats headphones and speakers, Apple TV, and peripherals and accessories for iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod. In addition, we'll begin to include iPod sales in the other products category and we will also reflect sales of Apple Watch in this line item once it begins shipping in early calendar 2015.

So to recap, beginning in Q1 2015, our product reporting categories will be iPhone, iPad, Mac, services, and other products. We wanted to give analysts and investors a heads-up on these plans so you can reflect then in your models accordingly. We'll also reclassify historical results to be consistent with these new groupings and we'll provide that information on our Investor Relations website when we release Q1 results.

And finally, our distribution channels have evolved and expanded significantly in the last couple of years, including traditional resellers, consumer electronic stores, mass retailers, distributors and carriers and each of these channels has a different distribution model. Today, iPhone is sold in over 200,000 locations around the world and iPad is sold in more than 100,000.

In addition, revenue from emerging markets has increased considerably over the last few years and now accounts for over a quarter of our sales. And channel inventory requirements in those markets tend to be much longer.

So due to the size, complexity and differing needs of our channels around the world, we've determined that a 5 to 7 week average range for both iPhone and iPad channel inventory is more appropriate and that will be our target range going forward. However, given the backlog for our new products, we expect to exit the December quarter within our old 4 to 6 week target range.

So with that, let's open the call to questions and we ask that you please limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: My first question is with regards to Apple Pay which we actually used this afternoon and where it was rolled out it actually worked pretty well, which was nice. But could you provide some more color, Tim and Luca on how you see a business model for Apple and maybe from a high-level perspective if you see it as more sort of over time becoming a standalone business sort of like you look at iTunes? Or is this more just a way to sell incremental product?

TIM COOK: Shannon, hi. It's Tim. What we wanted to achieve with Apple Pay was first and foremost to have an incredible consumer experience. And so we focused very much on making it elegant and simple and hopefully your trials have proven that. I know I used it over the weekend and it worked fantastically. We also wanted to focus on security and privacy. And so we see huge issues with the security of the traditional credit card system. And many people that have entered mobile payments are doing so in a way that they want to monetize the data that they collect from the customers. And we think customers in general do not want this, that they'd like to keep their data private. And so we wanted to have ease-of-use, security and privacy and maximize all three. By doing so, we think we will sell more devices because we think it's a killer feature.

It's far better than reaching in your pocketbook and trying to find the card that you're looking for and half the time it not working. We do not charge the customer for the benefit. We do not charge the merchant for the benefit. However, there are commercial terms between Apple and the issuing bank. But we're not disclosing what they are. Like any other contractual arrangement, those are private sort of things. And so as Nancy was saying in her closing comments, we'll be reporting Apple Pay in the services line item on the data sheet. And so we see it as an incredible service that is the most customer centric mobile payment system that there is. And we're very proud of it and can't wait to sign up more retailers and also extend it around the world.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you. Luca, if you could talk a little bit about the impact of currency, in IBM's results this morning they talk substantially about potential pressure going forward from currency. So could you walk us through how your hedges work, how we should think about currency and how you reflected it in at least the current quarter guidance?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes. Definitely, Shannon. As you know, the US dollar has strengthened quite significantly against most currencies in recent weeks. When we looked at our Q4 results, actually the impact was fairly limited. The combination of the hedging program and the fact that the dollar really strengthened towards the very end of the quarter. Not much impact in Q4. It is becoming a significant headwind in Q1, both on a year-over-year basis and on a sequential basis.

As I said before, we have reflected the new FX situation at current levels into our guidance that we provided for both revenue and gross margins. And it's a fact of life. If the US dollar strengthens, that creates a headwind for us both in revenue and margins for our business outside the United States. As you know, we have a comprehensive hedging program in place that mitigates the impact of foreign exchange. Over time, of course, these hedges roll off and get replaced by new hedges at new spot levels. And so the protection that you get from a hedging program is temporary. But again, the guidance that we provided fully reflects the current situation in the FX markets.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Could you comment about how we should think about the key swing factors for gross margins in the December quarter obviously outside of the FX impact you just mentioned, Luca, and more broadly I know it's still early but how should we think about the gross margins pass as the iPhone 6 family ramps versus what we saw with the 5s and 5c cycle? I guess you can't answer that specifically, I'm trying to figure out if you characterize this as a fairly normal cycle in terms of expected cost improvements over the life of the product?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, Bill. Let me start with puts and takes of margins for Q1. I would say that on the positive, we are so pleased with the launch of the new phones, demand has been phenomenal. So we think we're going to be getting favorable impact from iPhone mix. Of course, we're also going to be getting some positive leverage from the higher revenues that we guided to. And we continue to see a fairly favorable commodity environment. So these are the things that are on the positive side.

On the negative side, I talked about FX. Obviously, we have launched a lot of new products here in the last six weeks and we've got transition cost as we move from current products to new products and that tends to be a headwind. And every time we launch new products, we make them better. And what that means is that our cost structures tend to go up when we introduce new products. We have a very good track record of taking those cost structures down over time. So when you take the positives and negatives that I've just mentioned, that is what gives us the guidance that we just provided.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Great. And then my second question is looking at the current supply constraints for the iPhone could you confirm that your guidance is assuming you reach supply-demand balance before the end of the quarter? I think that's what was implied by your commentary on channel inventory. And related to that could you give us some more color on what you see as the key bottlenecks at this point for supply on the iPhone side?

TIM COOK: Bill, it's Tim. The ramp itself is going great. It's the fastest ever in our history. So I couldn't be happier with it. That said, today, demand is far outstripping supply. It's unclear, looking at the data when supply will catch up with demand. And so I don't want to leave you with a view that we know that we're going to get to a supply-demand balance on both of the new products this quarter because I don't know that at this point.

It's very difficult to gauge demand without first achieving -- without first finding the balance. And it's clear that as of today, and certainly as of the end of the quarter is where you're looking at the data, we're not nearly balanced. We're not close. We're not on the same planet. And -- but that said, I'm really confident the supply's going to be great and that's the reason you see incredibly strong guidance that we're giving from $63.5 billion and $66.5 billion. But at this point it's just very difficult to gauge what the true demand is. It's very unusual to see every country having a marked improvement over the previous year. And that's what we're seeing on iPhone. And so I couldn't be happier with the way the demand looks.

Nancy's comment at the end was meant to tell you that we do not envision, as of today, being able to achieve the extra inventory in the channel that we believe is needed when you think about the long food chains in these -- in some of the emerging markets where the distribution channels are not as efficient. So that's the purpose of that comment.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. That's helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Luca, I wonder if you can quantify the currency headwind on gross margin in the December quarter. Just because there's a big focus on currency across tech right now. And should we expect price harmonization if the dollar remains strong? And then I have a follow-up.

LUCA MAESTRI: Katy, I said that the headwinds from foreign exchange are going to be significant. And I would tell you that they're most significant when you look at this from a year-over-year basis, than it is on a sequential basis because clearly, the dollar has been strengthening for quite a while. Particularly against certain currencies like the yen or the Canadian dollar. A lot of the emerging markets' currencies. It's a significant impact and that's the reason why we wanted to call it out.

KATY HUBERTY: Will you do any price harmonization if the dollar remains strong?

LUCA MAESTRI: We price our products in a way that is in general reflective of pricing here in the United States and it's a pricing that we want to keep in place for reasonable periods of time. We do not like to make sudden changes to our pricing.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay. As a follow-up, I wonder if you can comment on how NAN capacity and SKU mix is tracking versus your expectations for the iPhone 6?

TIM COOK: Katy, it's Tim. At this point, we're selling everything we make. And so it's difficult to say that we've been -- that we've estimated well on the SKU mix, the split between the iPhone 6 and the 6 Plus. From everything we can tell, we've done a pretty good job on that. But I stop short of saying there's no issue at all, because it's hard to tell when you're at a point where you're selling everything you're making. It's a good problem to have.

KATY HUBERTY: Got it. Congrats on the quarter.

TIM COOK: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I have one for Luca and one for Tim, please. Luca, the question for you is a bit of a follow-up from the last one which is that we saw pretty robust sequential increase in ASP's this quarter in the iPhone. And I was wondering if you could qualitatively help us understand whether that was a higher mix of new phones than you typically see in the September quarter. Or was it really a function of the new phones having a richer ASP? And if we look forward to calendar -- fiscal Q1, last year you had a very substantial ASP increase. Should we be thinking about a similar kind of ASP increase this quarter given I think a widespread belief that availability on the 6 Plus has been even more constrained and that we could see a much higher percentage of 6 Plus as a percentage of total iPhones shipped in the quarter next quarter?

LUCA MAESTRI: So on a sequential basis, our ASP's for iPhone were up $42. And as you said correctly, the reason for the increase was a higher mix of the new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. There was a partial offset in the quarter from the transition cost that we incur typically when we move to a new product. Going forward, obviously, the percentage of new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, will increase sequentially as we're going to have the full quarter available to us. And it is correct that iPhone 6 Plus is supply constrained right now.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. And then Tim, for you, I was wondering again qualitatively, if you could help us understand what you think the mix of repeat buyers is for iPhone 6 let's say over the next year versus first time iPhone customers? And the question in that is, do you believe that because the iPhone 6 is so compelling that, that traditional replacement cycle might be accelerated over the next several quarters? And if that's ultimately the case, do you in the future run reversion back towards an elongating of that replacement cycle in future generations?

TIM COOK: It's difficult to answer exactly, but let me back up and give you some data maybe that will help frame the topic some. If you look at some of our top countries, and how they did in midyear of selling a customer the first iPhone they'd ever bought, what you would see is that in countries like China, over 80% of people that we were selling the 4s to were buying their first iPhone ever. In the US, it was over 60%. And so those kind of give you some goalposts of large countries in terms of first time ownership, our entry-level.

As you step across and look at the 5s, which was at that time the top in phone, in China still almost half the people were buying the first iPhone ever, buying a 5s and about a quarter of the US population buying a 5s were buying the first one. So that kind of gives you some goalposts. And so the way I look at those numbers are that on a forward basis, what I would expect but obviously we don't give guidance on this kind of stuff is that I still see a fairly large opportunity in people buying their first iPhone ever. And I think with these products that we just announced with 6 and 6 Plus, that opportunity increases not decreases. I also believe that the upgrade market for people that were waiting for a 6, for iPhone 6 or 6 Plus as we can see from our order backlog, that number is huge.

And so I would expect that to go on for some period of time because you have people that time out of contracts at a different time. Not everybody does that at launch time. And so I see both the first-time buyer being a great opportunity and the upgrade or some of the first-time buyers are people that are people that have never owned a smartphone before and some of them are switchers from Android. And so right now, everything all of those look very good to us, but we're in the early going and we're selling everything we're making. So it's going to take some period of time before we have a better handle on what those numbers will look like in steady-state. But I've never felt so great after a launch before. Maybe that's the best way to summarize it of all.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Milunovich, UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Is there more color you can give us on the mix of 6 and 6 Plus particularly to the degree that you see it in order book? Our work suggests it's maybe 2.5 to 1; 6 to 6 Plus in the US. But it maybe that geographically it's quite different Asia maybe going for the bigger screen. Is there any color you can give us?

TIM COOK: Steve, there's not a lot of color that I can give that I feel is terribly accurate because as I said before we're selling everything we're making and so essentially what our current sellthrough looks like is our current supply. And so in the long arc of time once there's enough supply to meet demand, that mix might look differently. It is clear -- or at least I think that we will see a difference by geography in terms of preference. And we thought that going into the launch. And there's no data that we've received to date that would suggest that, that's not the case. And so that's about all I can say at this point.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. And then regarding the strength in Mac and the weakness in iPad I guess what's the message from the market that you take away from that? And does that perhaps at all affect your view of doing a convertible type product which in the past has not been Apple's approach? You tend to like do very focused products but it might be that there's something in between that could be quite successful.

TIM COOK: Let me comment on both the Mac and the iPad. On the Mac it was just an absolutely blow away quarter. Our best ever. It will result in our highest market share since 1995. It's just absolutely stunning. The back-to-school season voted and the Mac won and carried the day. And we're really proud of that. I'm proud of the Mac team. It's clear that all the work that we've put into our notebooks on the hardware and the software side is resonating with our customers. And I think if you went out to college campuses about now, you would see a lot of new Mac notebooks there based on the sales. And so that feels fantastic. Being up 21% in that markets that's shrinking, it doesn't get better than that.

For iPad, I'd take a step back on iPad. I know that there's a lot of negative commentary in the markets on this, but I have a little different perspective on it. Here's my simple perspective. If you look at instead of looking at this thing each 90 days, if you back up and look at it we've sold 237 million in just over four years. That's about twice the number of iPhones that we sold over the first four years of iPhone. If you look at the last 12 months of iPad, we sold 68 million. And FY13 we sold 71 million.

So we were down but we were down 4% on sell in and the sellthrough was a bit better than the negative 4% because we took down channel inventory some. And so to me I view it as a speed bump, not a huge issue. That said, we want to grow. We don't like negative numbers on these things. And so looking further in the data, I know that there's a popular view that the market is saturated, but we don't see that. I can't speak to other people, but I do look at our data deeply. And in the last market research data we have is in the June quarter.

Let me give you some of the real data that we've got. If you look at our top six revenue countries, in the country that's sold the lowest percentage of iPads to people who had never bought an iPad before, that number is 50%. And the range goes from 50% to over 70%. And so when I look at first time buyer rates in that area, saturated -- that's not a saturated market. You never have first-time buyer rates at 50% and 70%. What you do see is that people hold onto their iPad longer than they do a phone. And because we've only been in this business four years, we don't really know what the upgrade cycle will be for people. And so that's a difficult thing to call.

What we do know is that people always respond to do -- for us doing great products and we feel really great about what we introduced last week. We also know that the deeper the apps go in the enterprise, the more it opens up avenues in enterprise. And that's a key part of the IBM partnership and what I think customers will get out of that, which is more important than us selling, is changing the way people work. And so I see catalysts going forward. There are obvious cannibalization things that are occurring. I'm sure that some people looked at a Mac and an iPad and decided on a Mac. I don't have research to demonstrate that but I'm sure of that just looking at the numbers. And I'm fine with that, by the way. I'm sure that some people will look at an iPad and an iPhone and decide just to get an iPhone and I'm fine with that as well.

But over the long arc of time, my own judgment is that iPad has a great future. How the individual 90 day clicks work out, I don't know. But I'm very bullish on where we can take iPad over time and so we're continuing to invest in the product pipeline. We're continuing to invest in distribution. If you look at how we did in emerging markets, like BRIC countries as an example we were up 20% for the full year of 2014. And so these numbers are impressive and obviously the BRIC countries are growing as a percentage of our total as is developing markets. And so it looks a bit different geography to geography. And so that's a long answer to your question. But I thought it was important for you to at least hear my perspective and you can judge it as you will.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Tim, I was wondering what we were to make out of your new segments with the Apple Watch being in the other category. We were just a little surprised to hear that because it seems like such a substantial new category. And you could sell maybe even tens of millions of units. So by putting it lumped in the other with iPods and a lot of other things, does that say something about your expectations for that product or do you think that you'll just break it out after a little while?

TIM COOK: It says nothing about our expectation for the product. We didn't form those categories based on expectations. We looked at current revenue, today revenue. And decided that we would lump everything that wasn't a Mac, an iPad, or an iPhone or a service in one kind of category. In the future, we might decide something different. But for now, in Q1 we're not shipping any Apple Watches. And so it seems appropriate to start it that way.

It also -- to be also straight, is -- I'm not very anxious in reporting a lot of numbers on Apple Watch, because of the -- and giving a lot of detail on it because our competitors are looking for it. And so aggregating it is helpful from that point of view as well.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Got it. And then with regard to my next question is you put out a lot of products and we obviously everybody gives you a lot of credit for the great, new product lineup that we have but everybody talks about what's next. You said in an interview recently on TV that you were working on products that people didn't even speculate on yet and that's pretty hard with Apple considering how many people watch your Company and write about it. So I was just wondering if you could elaborate on that may be in terms of your excitement around new products and what did you mean by that comment and how do you feel about the future in light of that comment you made? Thanks a lot.

TIM COOK: I'm incredibly optimistic about the future. We've already announced two new categories in the last 60 days or so or less than 60 days with Apple Pay. And Apple Watch, start shipping the watch early next year. And obviously, we're working on other things as well. And to the degree that I can keep that in the cone of silence, I'm going to do it. And so I'm not sure what to say. I'm not going to give any hints or anything. We look at a lot of different things and we're fortunate to have a lot of creative people here that want to change the world and have a lot of great ideas.

BEN REITZES: All right. Thanks, Tim.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Follow-up to Ben's question in terms of the last year you had high expectations in terms of new product categories and the iPhone 6 launch but there are some investors and think about Apple as a products cycle story so Tim I'd be interested in how you think about the story broadly in 2015 and kind of exciting things to be focused on as an investor and then I have a follow-up to Luca.

TIM COOK: Well, for Apple, as an investor, I would hope that people would look at what we've done and what we've delivered and the power and strength of the product line that we've announced. And maybe more importantly than all the stuff that you see, is to look at the skills within this Company. And the fact that I think it's the only Company on the planet that has the ability to integrate hardware and software and services at a world-class level. And that in itself allows Apple to play in so many different areas. And so the challenge becomes one of deciding which ones to say no to and which ones to say yes to and one of focus, not ones of do we have any great ideas? We always have more ideas than we have resources to deal with. And so I would look at that.

I would look at what we talked about last week. Things like continuity. And if you use your imagination and think about where that goes, there's no other Company that can do this. Apple is the only one. And I think this becomes so incredibly important moving forward for customers living in an environment where they're using multiple devices. And so I would look at the skills, the capabilities, the passion of the Company and the creative engine has never been stronger. And I think you can see that from the Apple Watch. You can see that with Apple Pay.

Apple Pay is classic Apple, taking something that is incredibly old, outdated, kluge, everybody's focused on everything except for the customer and putting the customer at the center of the experience. And making something very elegant. So I would look at those things. And when I look at those things, I would as an investor, I feel great. As a personal investor, I feel great.

GENE MUNSTER: That's helpful. And a follow-up for Luca, you mentioned that you have typical transition costs that involve in new products you're rolling out. Do those costs start to ease in the March quarter and would that presumably have a positive impact on gross margins in March versus December?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes. And you know pretty much what our product cadence is and what it's been in the past. And you know that the holiday season is a period where we have significant product events. And we're not providing any guidance for the March quarter. And also keep in mind, Gene, if you are trying to extrapolate the gross margins into the future, there are so many factors that affect gross margin over time. It's not only transition costs but it's product mix, it's foreign exchange, it's commodity markets.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Great. Thanks. Congratulations.

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman, Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Tim, I was wondering if you could characterize China a little bit. The numbers I understand weren't as good as the rest of the Company this quarter but presumably that was all the delay of the iPhone. So I'm really asking if you talk about the last few weeks and more importantly as you look at December quarter in particular related to some of the political backdrop including the carriers have been mandated not to spend the same level of subsidies. Do you see any of that impacting your opportunities for Apple broadly speaking but more specifically for iPhones as it relates to subsidy levels?

TIM COOK: That's a good question. Keith, as you said if you look at greater China, Q4 of 2014 compared to Q4 of 2013 the obvious difference is that we launched the 5s in Q4 of 2013 and this year we didn't have a new product launch. We're launching in this quarter in Q1 of 2015.

KEITH BACHMAN: Yes.

TIM COOK: The second thing that's not as apparent probably but is somewhat related to that is that last year we increased our channel inventory by $1.3 million. This year we actually decreased it slightly. And so you have a compounded effect of no launch and a huge change in channel inventory on a year-over-year basis. So the way that I assess the strength of a market is I look at unit sellthrough. And to share with you what it was in greater China, iPhone unit sellthrough -- despite no launch, in Q4, was up 32% year-over-year. The market was projected by IDC to only grow 13%. So we feel incredibly great about that. Macs were up 54% year-over-year. And that's against the IDC's estimate of a market contraction in China of 7%.

And so those are our two stalwarts that were really driving results. And so the underlying results look totally different than the reported results because of the channel inventory kind of differences. The App Store in China is also doing great. The growth there is phenomenal. iPad contracted some during the quarter but for the full year, we did grow. We were up 9% year-over-year for the full year. And so I see lots of positives. As you know, China's on the early stages of their huge 4G rollout.

KEITH BACHMAN: Yes.

TIM COOK: And this weekend this past weekend we launched it with China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. This is the first time we've launched a new iPhone with all three carriers and we've done it at the early stages of the 4G rollout. And so I'm incredibly bullish over it. In terms of subsidies, there are regulatory pressures on subsidies. We've seen that. However, only 20% of the iPhones that we've been selling in China have had a traditional subsidy applied to it. And so the vast majority don't. And so will it make a difference with that 20%? I don't know yet. Intuitively, you would think it would. But it's at least a percentage of a 20% instead of a percentage of 100%.

And so when I look at China, I see an enormous market where there are more people graduating into the middle class than any nation on earth in history. And just an incredible market where people want the latest technology and products that we're providing. And so we're investing like crazy in the market. We're more than doubling our stores. We've got 15 in Greater China today. We're going to be close to 40 in the next couple of years. We've expanded our online store to cover now 315 cities in China. The revenue results for Q4 were more than double the previous year. The App Store is growing. Chinese developers have now created 150,000 apps of the apps on the App Store. And so I see lots of very, very positive vectors there. And I couldn't be more excited.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. And then as my follow-up if I could, Tim, you mentioned before on a previous comment on iPad where you saw I think 50% to 70% in the top six countries were new buyers. And related to a previous question, wondered if you could give that same range. I understand it's probably a pretty wide range for iPhones. And that was to the June quarter I think. And broadly speaking, how does that number change at least your guess as you look out over the next couple quarters given the launch of the 6 and the 6 Plus?

TIM COOK: For iPhone I really have it by model. From the June quarter. And as I've mentioned before, the highest percentage is the 4s buyer in China over 80% of the people were buying their first iPhone. And for a 5s in China, 50% were. And so I think what that says -- those numbers are so high, 80%, that I think a great -- my gut tells me a great percentage of 6 and 6 Plus buyers will eventually -- a great percentage of those will be new to iPhone. That's what I would predict.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. That's it for me, guys. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes Store as a webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone and the numbers for the telephone replay are (888)203-1112 or (719)457-0820. And please enter confirmation code 1997837. And these replays will be available by approximately 5PM pacific time today. Members of the press can contact Kristen Fugate. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gglobe : Global/World Issues | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141022eaak003pf
  


 HD
 Q3  2014 Apple Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
7,929 words
   PD
22 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Apple Incorporated Third-Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR IR, APPLE INC: Thank you, and good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Speaking first is Apple CEO, Tim Cook, and he'll be followed by CFO, Luca Maestri, and then we'll open the call to questions from analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast.

For more information, please refer to the Risk Factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2013, the Form's 10-Q for the first two quarters of FY14, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC: Thank you, Nancy, and good afternoon, everyone. It's been a very busy and exciting time at Apple, and I'd like to review some of the highlights of our June quarter.

We hosted our best ever Worldwide Developers Conference last month, with over 20 million people from around the world watching our keynote session, which is a new record. We've had overwhelming response from customers and developers to the new features we previewed in OS X Yosemite, and iOS 8.

Yosemite has been redesigned with a fresh look and powerful new apps, and iOS 8 is the biggest release since the launch of the App Store. With powerful continuity features, these upcoming releases while Macs and iOS devices to work together in even smarter ways.

Customers can start an activity like writing an email on one device, and pass it to another, picking up where they left off without missing a beat. They'll even be able to make and receive iPhone calls on their Mac with just a click. These are features that only Apple can deliver.

With iOS 8, we've opened over 4,000 APIs, providing more flexibility and opportunity for developers than ever before. iOS 8 provides developers with amazing new frameworks, enables wider use of touch ID to securely authenticate users within apps, and lets developers further customize the user experience with major extensibility features such as third-party keyboards.

We've also introduced Swift, an innovative new programming link, which for both iOS and OS X. Swift is the result of the latest research on programming languages, combined with decades of experience within building Apple platforms.

It makes writing code interactive and fun, eliminates entire classes of unsafe code, and generates apps that run lightning fast. It's easy to learn, allowing even more people to dream big and create whole new categories of apps. We believe our new OS releases combined with Swift will result in a huge leap forward for the Apple ecosystem, and we can't wait to see what developers will create with Yosemite, iOS 8, and Swift.

When we introduced iOS seven years ago, it was a revolutionary operating system for iPhone. Over the years, we've extended it to the iPod family with iPod touch, and later to a tablet form factor with iPad. An explosion of apps, accessories, and services for these devices has created an incredibly vibrant ecosystem.

We're extending iOS in even more dimensions, as customers around the world make iPhones and iPads an essential part of their lives at home, at school, at work, and on the go. We're putting a huge effort into delivering the best experience for our customers, wherever they use iOS.

That includes a safe and intuitive user interface while driving, called car play, which is being integrated by 29 major car brands. Including Audi, BMW, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Mercedes, Toyota, and Volvo. And after market systems like Pioneer and Alpine.

We've created a new tool for developers called HealthKit, which lets health and fitness apps work together and empowers customers to choose what health data they share. We're taking the first steps in this area in collaboration with the Mayo Clinic, whose new apps can automatically receive data from a blood pressure app for example, and share it with a physician. Or a nutrition app can inform fitness apps how many calories are being consumed each day. Our own health app will provide an easy to read dashboard of all health and fitness data.

We're enabling new ways to control lights, and doors, and thermostats, and other connected devices around the house using Siri with the HomeKit feature of iOS 8. And in the enterprise, we're including new security, productivity, and device management features in iOS 8. We forged a relationship with IBM to deliver a new class of mobile business solutions to enterprise customers around the world.

We're working together to provide companies access to the power of big data analytics, right on every employees iPhone or iPad. Using Swift, we'll collaborate to bring over 100 mobile first apps to enterprise clients, each addressing a specific industry need or opportunity.

This is a radical step for enterprise, and opens up a large market opportunity for Apple. But more importantly, it's great for productivity and creativity of our enterprise customers. From the pocket to the car, to the workplace, home, and gym, we have a very large vision of what iOS can be, and we're incredibly excited about our plans.

Turning to our financial results. Today, we're reporting record June quarter revenue thanks to the very strong performance of iPhone, Mac, and the continued growth of revenue from the Apple ecosystem. Our teams executed brilliantly during the quarter, with earnings-per-share up 20% year-over-year, our highest growth rate in seven quarters.

We sold over 35 million iPhones, setting a new third quarter record. We generated healthy growth in our entry priced, mid tier, and lead iPhone categories. I'm especially happy about our progress in the brick countries, where iPhone sales were up a very strong 55% year-over-year.

We also had a record June quarter from back sales, with growth of 18% year-over-year, and a market that is shrinking by 2% according to IDCs latest estimate. The demand has been very strong for our portables in particular, and we've had a great customer response to the new higher performance, lower priced MacBook Air.

It was another strong performance for the App Store, and the other services contributing to the thriving Apple ecosystem. In fact, for the first nine months of this fiscal year, the line item that we call iTunes Software and Services has been the fastest-growing part of our business. iTunes billings grew 25% year-over-year in the June quarter, and reached an all-time quarterly high, thanks to the very strong results from the App Store.

We're continuing to invest in our incredible ecosystem, which is a huge asset for Apple, and a very important differentiator of our customer experience. iPad sales met our expectations, but we realized they didn't meet many of yours. Our sales were gated in part by a reduction in channel inventory, and in part by market softness in certain parts of the world.

For example, IDCs latest estimate indicates a 5% overall decline in the US tablet market, as well as a decline in the Western European tablet market in the June quarter. But what's most important to us is that customers are enjoying their iPads, and using them heavily.

In a survey conducted in May by ChangeWave, iPad Air registered a 98% customer satisfaction rate, while iPad mini with the retina display received an astonishing 100% customer satisfaction rate. The survey also found that among people planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, 63% plan to buy an iPad. And our own data indicates that more than half of customers purchasing an iPad are buying their very first iPad. Another recent study by Custora found that iPad accounts for 80% of all the US tablet based e-commerce purchases.

We're very bullish about the future of the tablet market, and we're confident that we can continue to bring significant innovation to this category through hardware, software, and services. We think our partnership with IBM, providing a new generation of mobile enterprise applications, designed with iPad's legendary ease-of-use and backed by IBM's cloud services and data analytics will be one such catalyst for future iPad growth.

Looking ahead, we are very excited about our agreement to purchase Beats Electronics and Beats Music. Music is part of Apple's DNA, and we think the addition of the Beats team will be great for music lovers. Beats provides Apple with a fantastic subscription music service, access to rare talent, and a fast growing line up of products that we can build upon.

Not counting Beats, we've completed 29 acquisitions since the beginning of FY13, including 5 since the end of the March quarter. And we've brought some incredible technology, and more importantly, some incredible talent into Apple in the process. We're hard at work and investing heavily on exciting opportunities across our business, and we have an incredible pipeline of new products and services that we can't wait to show you.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Luca to discuss our Q3 results in more detail.

LUCA MAESTRI, CFO, APPLE INC: Thank you Tim, and good afternoon, everyone.

We set a new June quarter record for revenue at $37.4 billion, up $2.1 billion or 6% year-over-year. This result was towards the high end of our guidance range, despite the reduction in channel inventory for both iPhone and iPad. The revenue growth was driven by strong sales of iPhones and Macs, as well as the continued great performance of iTunes software and services.

Gross margin was 39.4%, above our guidance range, and operating margin was $10.3 billion, representing 27.5% of revenue. Net income was $7.7 billion translating to diluted earnings-per-share of $1.28, a 20% year-over-year increase.

For details by product, I'd like to start with iPhone. We sold 35.2 million iPhones, an increase of 4 million over last year, representing 13% growth. As Tim mentioned, iPhone sales grew well across all three of our entry priced, mid-tier, and lead product categories.

In the US, iPhone accounts for 41.9% of the smartphone subscriber base according to the latest data from Comscore. Up from 41.3% in the previous measurement period.

Also, based on the latest survey by ChangeWave, iPhone earned a 97% customer satisfaction rate. And among respondents planning to purchase a smartphone within 90 days, 50% plan to purchase an iPhone. Up from 42% in the March quarter, and 44% a year ago.

IPhone sales were at the high end of our expectations, despite new product rumors that we believe resulted in purchase delay. In addition, tax increases and the regulatory environment in Japan affected smartphone sales in what has been one of iPhone's fastest growing markets in recent quarters. Considering these factors, the performance of iPhone was even more impressive in the June quarter, and it boosts our confidence for the future.

We'll reduce iPhone channel inventory by about 150,000 from the end of the March quarter, leaving us within our target range of 4 weeks to 6 weeks.

Apple continues to innovate through hardware, software and services to make iPhone the best smartphone for business. Today, companies have equipped millions of employees with iPhones, and have seen tremendous benefits in productivity, employee satisfaction, and profitability.

For instance, medical device leader Medtronic has developed over 175 internal iOS apps for over 16,500 iPhones used by its employees to facilitate sales, improve productivity, and ensure that essential marketing materials are up to date. Throughout the global offices of Nestle, the largest food company in the world, over 25,000 iPhones are accessing corporate networks, improving communication, and connecting employees to critical internal resources. And at NASA, over 26,000 iPhones are in use by scientists, flight crew members, technicians, and researchers.

Turning to iPad, we sold 15.3 million units compared to 14.6 million in the June quarter last year. iPad sales grew overall in the developing markets, with particularly strong year-over-year growth in the Middle East, where iPad sales were up 64%. In China, where they grew 51%, and in India, where they were up 45%.

This growth was more than offset by lower sales in more mature markets. We reduced iPad channel inventory by 500,000 from the end of the March quarter, which left us within our target range of 4 weeks to 6 weeks.

In the enterprise, global companies are using iPad to improve customer service, boost worker productivity, and enhance critical processes. iPad continues to be the standard for teams across the airline industry. Quantas Airline has over 15,000 iPads, deployed to pilots, as well as cabin, customer service, and ground crews to announce key processes across their daily operations.

And governments are deploying thousands of iPads worldwide. One of the largest examples is Sweden, where over 100,000 iPads are being used by local government offices across the country.

In education, iPad remains the tablet of choice, with 85% share of the US education tablet market according to the latest published estimate from IDC. We've now sold 13 million iPads to education customers globally.

We're bringing teachers and students great new tools to build and experience educational counting on iPad. As of this month, teachers using the free iTunes U app, can create, edit, and manage entire courses that are actually on iPad for the first time. And students can discover new ways to collaborate, including the ability to start class discussions and ask questions right from their iPad.

Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We saw 4.4 million Macs compared to under 3.8 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 18% year-over-year, and a new June quarter record. The increase was driven by portables, thanks to very strong growth of MacBook Air.

We achieved strong double-digit Mac growth across many countries, including the US, Canada, Mexico, the UK, Germany, France, Australia, China, India, and the Middle East. This growth is particularly impressive given the contraction of the overall PC market. Macs have now gained global market share for 32 of the last 33 quarters.

Macs performed well in the US education buying season, with double-digit growth in the K to 12 market, driven primarily by large deployments of MacBook Air. The Shawnee Mission School District in Kansas chose Apple to provide an entire solution that will equip every teacher with a MacBook Air and an iPad Air, every high school student with a MacBook Air, and every middle school and elementary student with an iPad. The Rowan-Salisbury School System in North Carolina is deploying thousands of MacBook Air's to students and teachers in grades 9 through 12 as part of the district's digital learning initiatives.

We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory slightly below our 4 week to 5 week target range.

The Apple ecosystem continues to grow and thrive. Total revenue from iTunes software and services was $4.5 billion, an increase of 12% year-over-year.

Our iTunes stores generated all-time record billings of $5.4 billion in the June quarter, up 25% year-over-year, driven by very strong growth in App Store sales. These iTunes billings translated to quarterly iTunes revenue of almost $2.6 billion, up 8% from the year-ago quarter. Software and services revenue was $1.9 billion, up 19% from a year ago.

App Store momentum remains very strong, and cumulative app downloads have topped 75 billion. We continue to be amazed by our vibrant and diverse developer community, and we're extremely proud that our developers have now earned over $20 billion for sales of their apps to the App Store. Nearly half of which have been earned in the last 12 months. This number truly stands out among our competition, as our developers continue to benefit from the broad reach and thoughtful design of the App Store, coupled with Apple's large loyal and very engaged customer base.

Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $164.5 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $13.9 billion. Our domestic cash was $26.8 billion at the end of the June quarter, a sequential increase of $8.3 billion, and $137.7 billion or 84% of our total cash was offshore. Cash flow from operations was $10.3 billion.

We executed another very successful debt offering in April, issuing a total of $12 billion in notes across 3 year, 5 year, 7 year, 10 year and 30 year maturities. In addition, during the quarter, we entered the commercial paper market for the first time, with $2 billion in short-term obligations outstanding as of the end of June.

We also continued to execute our shareholder return program, with $8.3 billion of capital returned to investors during the June quarter. We spent $5 billion to repurchase 59 million of Apple shares through open market transactions. We paid almost $2.9 billion in dividends and equivalents, and utilized over $400 million to net share settle vesting employee RSUs.

We've now taken action on over $74 billion of our $130 billion capital return program, including $51 billion in share repurchases with six quarters remaining to its completion. And finally, our board has declared a dividend of $0.47 per common share payable on August 14, 2014 to shareholders of record as of August 11, 2014.

Now, as we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $37 billion and $40 billion, compared to $37.5 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 37% and 38%.

We expect OpEx to be between $4.75 billion and $4.85 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $250 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.1%. Finally, we expect the Beats transaction to close this quarter, and we expect the acquisition to be accretive to our earnings in our FY15.

With that, let me open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Luca, and we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up please. Operator, may we have the first question?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Luca, this is the third quarter in a row that gross margin came in above your guidance. Can you talk about what's driving that gap, and why you expect to the margin to come down sequentially in the September quarter?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, Katy, it was obviously a surprise also to us. We were expecting, obviously, a loss in leverage from the sequential decline in revenue, which obviously happened. We also expected some unfavorable mix, which also happens. It's typical as we move away from the launch quarter.

And we were expecting some cost improvements. These cost improvements came in, they came in stronger than we were anticipating.

The commodity markets continue to be favorable. The product quality continues to be excellent. Our teams executed really, really well. And all these things came together at the same time, and it was a very nice surprise for us.

As we look forward to into Q4, yes, we've got it to 37% to 38%. Again, the mix is the normal mix that we see as we continue to move through the product cycle.

And obviously in Q4, we've got some transition costs because we're expecting a very busy Fall. We're very excited about what we've got in the pipeline. And that's the reason why guide to that range.

KATY HUBERTY: And then, just a follow-up on that last point, Luca. In the press release, you referenced an excitement about new products and services. Can you remind us of your guidance philosophy as it relates to product cycles?

Do you imbed assumptions around the contribution from new products? And if so, do those tend to be more conservative than for products that already ship today?

LUCA MAESTRI: So our guidance, Katy, is that we put out numbers that we believe at this point in time with all of the information that is available to us. We're going to land within.

Okay, so we take into account the fact that we've seen some purchase delays already due in Q3. But we're seeing in some safe trends in certain geographies that that continues to happen. And what you see this quarter is that our guidance range is $3 billion as opposed to $2 billion during the third quarter just to take into account the fact that we've got many moving pieces.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: With the pockets of market weakness you noted for tablets, could you give us some more detail on how you're thinking about the category longer-term? And in particular, in the context of your usage comments. How are you sticking about the competitive landscape now and how that may evolve?

And then I guess related to that, what do you think could be the next driver of renewed growth for the category?

TIM COOK: Hello, Bill, it's Tim. If you back up from this, the category that we created, which has just been a little over four years, we've now sold 225 million iPads. Which is I think, probably a larger number than anyone would have predicted at the time, including ourselves, quite frankly.

We still feel the category as a whole is in its early days, and that there's also significant innovation that can be brought to the iPad, and we plan on doing that.

When I look at the top level numbers, I get really excited when I see that more than 50% of the iPads that we're selling are going to someone who is a first time tablet buyer. I get excited when I see that the retail share according to NPD in the month of June was 59% in units, and over 70% in terms of dollars. And of course, Luca had mentioned in his preamble, that our education share is 85%.

We also are in virtually all Fortune 500 companies. We're in 99% at of them to be exact, and 93% of the global 500. However, when we dig into the business market deeper, though our market share in the US in the commercial sector is good at 76%, this is according to IDC, the penetration in business is low. It's only 20%.

And to put that in some kind of context, if you looked at penetration of notebooks in business, it would be over 60%. And so we think that there's a substantial upside in business, and this was one of the thinkings behind the partnership with IBM that we announced last week.

We think that the core thing that unleashes this is a better go-to-market, which IBM clearly brings to the table. But even more importantly, apps that are written with mobile first in mind, many of the -- not all, but many of the enterprise apps that have been written for iPad have been essentially ports from a desktop arrangement and haven't taken full advantage of mobile.

And so we're excited about bringing that to business, along with partnering with IBM, which we think is a first-class company. And seeing what that can do to sales and business, which I honestly believe the opportunity is huge.

The market is still predicted in 2018, I think these are Gartner numbers, to be about $350 million in size. And to put that in some context, I think the PC market right now is about $315 million.

And so I think our theory that has been there honestly since the first time that we shipped iPad, that the tablet market would eventually surpass the PC market. That theory is still intact, I just think we have to do some more things to get the business side of it moving in a faster trajectory. And I think we're now onto something that can really do that.

So as I look at it and sort of back up from the 90 day clock kind of thing, I'm incredibly excited. I'm excited about the plans that we have on the product side, and also on the go-to-market side, and, in particular, the IBM announcement.

One other point I might add on this, because I think this is interesting, and I don't think it came out in our commentary so far, is the market is very bifurcated on iPad. In the brick countries, iPad did extremely well. The growth was very high.

Like in the China, it was in the 50%s, in the Middle East it was in the 60%s. Luca may have mentioned those numbers. In the developed countries, like the US, the market is clearly weaker there.

It's interesting to note, however, that the US as an example, we had a very, very strong Macintosh market in the US. And so there's probably a bit of higher ed kind of stuff beginning to play out too, where higher ed is clearly still very much notebook oriented. K-12, on the other hand, we sell two and half iPads for every Mac into K-12.

So we're clearly headed into that seasonal now, and it typically starts in graduation time frame in fiscal Q3 for us. So I think that's probably another thing that we're seeing.

BILL SHOPE: That's helpful, thank you. One more question, if I could.

You had, obviously, great performance in the brit countries, and you touched on China for a few categories. Can you talk about the overall demand environment you saw for China in the quarter? Obviously, there's some seasonal factors to consider, but how should we think about your performance versus your expectations and how you're thinking about it the rest of the calendar year?

TIM COOK: China, honestly, was surprising to us that it was -- we thought it would be strong, but it well went past what we thought. We came in at 26% of revenue growth, including our retail. And if you look at the units, the unit growth was really off the charts across the board.

iPhone 48% off, that compares to a market estimate of 24 %. So growing at two times the market.

iPad was up as well, as I've mentioned before. The Mac was up 39%, and that's versus a market in China that's also contracting along with markets in those parts of the world. And in China, it was projected to contract by 5%.

So we're seeing some substantial strength there, and the thing that actually growing the most is the iTunes software and services category which has the App Store in it, et cetera. And that area is almost doubling year-over-year. So it's very, very exciting what we're seeing there.

We are still in the process of rolling out, along with our partner China Mobile, the TDL TE into more cities, and so we're still in the early going on that. That just started in January, as you know. And my understanding is, that later this year, there will be a license for the other operators to begin shifting SDD LTE, which I think is another big opportunity in China.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, great. Thanks, Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Yes, thank you. I have one for Luca, and one for Tim please.

Luca, I wanted to revisit the gross margin question. You've talked about guidance for next quarter, that the drivers of the sequential decline being a normal mix through the cycle and transition costs. Your guidance to the midpoint is down 190 basis points in gross margin.

Last year, in Q4, gross margins were up 10 basis points sequentially in fiscal Q4. And the product transition issues or cycle issues that you elude to seem essentially identical. So I'd like to try and understand what might make this Q4 different, let's say, than last Q4.

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, I understand this question. Also, when you look at it in terms of absolute numbers of gross margin, last year it was 37%. So our range is about that level.

There's obviously many, many things that affect us in different ways from one year to the other. Foreign-exchange is a case where a lot of the emerging market currencies and the yen, and the Austrian dollar, the Canadian dollar, they've been weaker against the US dollar. That has an impact on margin. And also when you think about our product cycle, I think we don't get into the specifics, but that this is not exactly the same cycle as we've had a year ago.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Is it better if we look back two years to the iPhone 5, your product margins were down 260 basis points sequentially. So is the reference there that we should be thinking in terms of changes that are more akin to what we saw two years ago, rather than to this year?

LUCA MAESTRI: I wouldn't necessarily draw that analogy. I think we need to start thinking from the fact that we had a very, very strong Q3. A lot of things came together extremely well.

37% to 38% is a range that we think is very good. And that's where we are right now, and we still have several weeks in the quarter.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay, thank you.

Tim, I wanted to get your input on the impact of trade in programs for the iPhone, particularly in mature markets where they're most prevalent. As best I can tell, if I look at the last four quarters, and not hyper focus on 90 days, it looks like the iPhone has been about flat in units terms in the Americas, and up low single digits in Europe. And I think Europe includes India, which is obviously very fast-growing. So perhaps low single-digits in Europe.

So if we look at those Western geographies, we've seen relatively flattish iPhone unit sales over the last year. I know you don't report it, but just sort of based on overall revenue reporting.

I'm wondering if you can comment on what you're seeing in terms of iPhone trade-in programs? And this is four quarters, so over a complete cycle, whether you think they're elongating or shrinking, and what impact these very increasing prevalent trade-in programs might be having on them. And what impact your pricing of older generation devices might be having on them.

TIM COOK: The theory that you have, Toni, is not precisely correct. If I looked at Europe, the operating segments of Europe for year-to-date for 2014 versus the same period last year, iPhone units were actually up 10%. Your more macro question, or what I understand to be your more macro question, do I think there's some sort of cannibalization going on of trade-in programs on new product sales.

What I think is happening in the aggregate as you look across the world, is that trade-ins are actually hugely beneficial for our ecosystem. Because people wind up -- we have more people that are able to join the party when we have a trade-in. Because in essence, it winds up being used by in the -- probably the prime example is someone else within the family. Or in the example that has become more common in the last year, someone trades it in, and then that goes to either somebody else in that country that is very price sensitive, or somebody in a different country.

And I see all of this as good. In looking at how much of it cannibalizes, it is very hard to answer that question within a degree of preciseness. But my gut is, is that the cannibalization factor is low, because you wind up attracting people that are much more price sensitive than there.

I think the great thing is our products command a much higher resale value than others do. And so that leads to a larger trade-in. And from my perspective, that means a larger ecosystem, more people that wind up getting on iPhone.

And as you know, from following us for quite some time, if we get somebody to try an Apple product, and then buy an Apple product, the likelihood that they begin buying other Apple products that may be in different categories or upgrading to one in that category in the future is very high. So, net-net, I view it to be positive. It's very difficult to quantify with certainty.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Toni. Could we have next question, please?

OPERATOR: Steve Milunovich, UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Steve, we lost you.

TIM COOK: Steve, are you there?

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Yes. Tim, you mentioned that Japan was fairly flat due to regulations and taxes. Could you elaborate on that, and what comparisons perhaps you see going forward?

TIM COOK: Yes, that was actually Luca, but I can comment on it. The VAT was increased from 5% to 8% at close to the beginning of the quarter, I think it was actually April 1, or so. That was the first planned the VAT increase.

There are other or at least one additional planned VAT increase in the future. This is a part of the overall tax reform package in Japan.

Secondly, the carriers received some guidance from the regulators to essentially stop incenting people to transfer from another carrier at a higher amount than they were retaining their own customers. And so, it appears that the combination of these two things dampened the whole market for smartphones in Japan.

We haven't been able to get very detailed data on share, but my expectation is we're not going to see very much of a share change. And we're beginning to see some coming back of that market, as we step into this quarter. Maybe not back to the level that it was previously, but you can begin to see the market growing again, which we view as very positive.

In the past, when we've seen these type of things, tax changes, et cetera, there's usually a rush to buy before the tax increase. A pause that happens thereafter, and then the market eventually goes back to some kind of steady state that may not be exactly where it was, but it nears it. So I think that's likely our guts -- or I think that's what happens on the VAT side.

The other piece is a little harder to conclude what will happen in terms of that guidance, and how long that might be in place. I don't know that part.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. That's very helpful.

And then, you talked about your three tiers of iPhones. I wonder if you would be willing to break out in any more detail the growth, and particularly, defend the 5C in the mid tier. I know our surveys continue to find in the US that it's falling little bit as a percentage of business, but you seem to believe it's doing exactly what you expected it to do.

TIM COOK: I can tell you this. That if you look at the growth rates, we don't divide out each one, but if you look at year-over-year growth rates. And so this would be comparing the 5C to last year, it would be comparing the 4S, which was in the mid tier. The growth in that sector was the highest growth during the quarter we just finished.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Of the three tiers?

TIM COOK: Of the three tiers. So we're extremely happy with how it performed last quarter.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Paul Bender, Credit Suisse.

PAUL BENDER, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. I have just one question for Luce, and one for Tim. For Luca, you mentioned that commodity pricing, I guess the environment was good for you. Is it your worth and assumption in your guidance that that continues to be favorable and a tailwind for you?

And then my question for Tim is that, with the installment plans that are being introduced in the US, I imagine that given the increases of flexibility for people to upgrade faster. Would you expect that to happen for iPhone? Are your see any evidence of that as these contexts come up?

Because we've had them out now for several months. And how do you see that impacting your business? Because obviously, the US iPhone part of your business is still very significant, and it could be quite a catalyst for the iPhone business going forward I would imagine. Or would you be more tentative into how is that playing out?

TIM COOK: I'll take both of these. This is Tim.

On the component question, what we saw in the June quarter was that NAND, mobile DRAM and LCD, the pricing on all of those it declined. While PC DRAM increased, despite the market for PCs contracting.

In the September quarter, what is factored in our guidance, is that LCDs and mobile DRAM continued to decline. That NAND pricing remains essentially flat from last quarter, and that PC DRAM has a slight price increase.

And in terms of other commodities that I didn't talk about, we've assumed that they would decline at historical rates. And so that's factored into the gross margin guidance that Luca gave you.

In terms of the installment plans that you mentioned in the US relative to iPhone, there's a lot of different models that are being tried in the US, and throughout the world. And actually last quarter, as we estimated, and this is subject to the estimating error, but we're estimating that less in one out of four iPhones were sold on a traditional subsidy plan. And so that number is markedly different than it would've been two years ago.

The installment plans that you're speaking about which gives the customer the right to upgrade fast, or faster than a usual two-year cycle, we think that that plays to our customer base in a large way. So that makes us incredibly bullish that customers on those plans would be very likely to upgrade when we announce a new product.

PAUL BENDER: Thank you. Very helpful.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Paul Bender. May we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks a lot. Tim, my question is for you. I guess during the quarter, you did two very big things in our opinion, obviously buying Beats, biggest acquisition in your history. And you also did this IBM deal, which obviously was in this quarter, but since the last call.

And that was very interesting, obviously, really collaborating with another huge company to get further into the enterprise. And I was just wondering what are you seeing in Apple that's changing? These seem like big deals that change your direction a bit, something that you wouldn't have done in the past. And do you see a lot more partnerships and larger acquisitions on the horizon to grow your TAM in various markets?

TIM COOK: Well I think we think we have a lot of really great people, Ben. And I think we have the capability, as I've said before, I think we have the capability to acquire a sizable company and manage it. Relative to IBM, I feel the same way.

I think you can only do so many partnerships well. So, it's unusual that we enter into a partnership.

But in this particular case, I think arguably the companies are so complimentary. And I've gotten to know Jenny fairly well over the last couple of years, and I think we see the importance of the customer a lot of the same way. And both feel that mobile and enterprise is just an enormous opportunity.

We're not competing with each other. And so I think a partnership in that case is particularly great.

Would we do more of either of the things we did? We're always looking in the acquisition space, but we don't let our money burn a hole in our pocket. And we don't do things that aren't strategic.

So with Beats, we felt we were getting an incredible subscription service, a very rare set of talent that we think can do great things in Apple. And access to a very fast-growing business in their headphone and earphone space. And culturally, we felt there was a match, and music has been deeply embedded in Apple's DNA for many, many years.

So it was a great marriage, and I think the partnership with IBM is a great marriage as well. If more like that presented themselves, or -- then I think we can manage more things. I think we have a very, very strong Executive team, and can do that.

But it's not my goal to acquire a certain number of companies or to spend a certain amount of money. We want to do things that help us make great products and are great for our customers, and so forth.

BEN REITZES: Sorry. Just really quick on the IBM. Does this say something about Apple doing more in big data, and taking a cut maybe of some of the analytics opportunities as well?

TIM COOK: We didn't talk about the -- how the business model is going to work. But generally speaking, I think that each of us have revenue streams in the enterprise, and each of us win from having those revenue streams. So that's how I look at that.

We win if we can drive that penetration number I spoke about from 20% to 60%. That would be incredibly exciting here. The walls would shake. So that's what I hope for.

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Ben Shackner, Macquarie.

BEN SHACKNER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Thanks. Tim, I was just wanting to talks about the app market for enterprise. Right now, I believe that app developers can sell to the enterprise directly, and therefore, that they can bypass the sharing revenue from these app sales with Apple. Is Apple going to allow that to continue?

And can you also just more broadly discuss how Apple thinks about the opportunity to sell apps directly to the enterprise? Thanks.

TIM COOK: We have no plans to change the rules with enterprise. Some enterprises buy proprietary apps that they do not want to offer to others, and so we obviously have a way for them to distribute those into their enterprise on just the employees that they want to. So I'm not worried about changing that.

We're all for taking friction out of the system, and not adding it. Again, the big thing for us is getting the penetration number up and getting our product iPhones, and iPads, and Macs in more people's hands. We think there's a huge opportunity in enterprise to do that.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben.

A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes Store, as a web, cast on Apple.com/investors, and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820. And please enter confirmation code 7618258. These replays will be available by approximately 5:00 PM Pacific time today.

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. And thanks again to everyone for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140724ea7m0060p
  


 HD
 Q2  2014 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,945 words
   PD
23 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Apple Incorporated second-quarter FY14 Earnings Release conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations.

NANCY PAXTON, IR CONTACT, APPLE INC: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks, everyone, for joining us today.

Speaking first today are Apple CEO, Tim Cook, and Vice President and Corporate Controller, Luca Maestri, and they'll be joined by CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, for the Q&A session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, future products, and capital allocation plans. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2013, the Form 10-Q for the first quarter of FY14, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone. We have a lot to share with you over the next hour and I'd like to start right away with the very strong results we're reporting for the March quarter.

We generated $45.6 billion in revenue, which was ahead of our expectations and represents a new March quarter record and is our strongest non-holiday quarter ever. Our underlying business performance was even stronger than our reported results imply, when you take into account changes in channel inventory this year versus last year, and foreign exchange headwinds that we faced in several of our international markets. Setting foreign exchange and inventory changes aside, our underlying growth rate would have been close to double digits.

These strong revenue results, combined with our best gross margin percentage since September of 2012, resulted in earnings per share growth of 15%, which is our highest earnings growth rate in the last six quarters. iPhone was key in driving our stronger-than-expected results. We sold almost 44 million iPhones, setting a new March quarter record.

These strong results were broad-based, both from a product point of view, with demand for each of our three iPhones stronger than its predecessor, and from a geographic standpoint. We gained smartphone share in many developed and emerging markets, including the US, the UK, Japan, Canada, Germany, France, Vietnam, and greater China, just to mention a few. In fact, we established a new all-time record for total iPhone sales in the BRIC countries.

iTunes software and services revenue continued to grow at a double-digit rate, thanks to an incredible ecosystem and our very large, loyal, and engaged customer base. With its strong momentum and growing profitability, iTunes is a very important driver of our business, not only here in the United States, but around the world.

We now have an almost 800 million iTunes accounts, most of these with credit cards. This is a staggering number.

We continued to gain share in the personal computer market as well. We defied industry trends again by growing while the market contracted. Our bold decision to make OS X free has resulted in the largest-ever percentage of the Mac install base running on the latest version of the operating system, just months after its release.

iPad sales came in at the high end of our expectations, but we realized they were below analyst estimates, and I would like to proactively address why we think there was a difference. We believe almost all of the difference can be explained by two factors.

First, in the March quarter last year, we significantly increased iPad channel inventory, while this year we significantly reduced it. Luca will go into more detail about this later.

Second, we ended the December quarter last year with a substantial backlog of iPad mini that was subsequently shipped in the March quarter, whereas we ended the December quarter this year near supply/demand balance. We continue to believe that the tablet market will surpass the PC market in size within the next few years, and we believe that Apple will be a major beneficiary of this trend.

When we look at our Company performance on a geographic basis, we're especially proud of our very strong results in greater China, where we established an all-time quarterly revenue record of almost $10 billion, including the results from our retail stores, and in Japan, where revenue was up 26% in spite of the foreign exchange headwinds and where our smartphone market share reached an incredible 55%.

We are continuing to invest in our retail stores, and since our last call, we've opened our first stores in Brazil and Turkey, and we now have retail stores in 15 countries around the world. I'm looking forward to welcoming our new retail and online leader, Angela Ahrendts, who will be joining Apple's executive team next week.

Stepping back, we're now just past the halfway mark for FY14. Our strong March quarter results brings us to total revenues of over $103 billion for the first six months of the year, and earnings per share growth close to double-digits. We estimate that, over the last six months, we've added over 60 million new registered users of our four product categories.

Additionally, over two-thirds of people registering an iPad in the last six months were new to iPad, while over half of the people registering iPhones were new to iPhone. It's wonderful to add tens of millions of first-time Apple product users, especially considering the strong halo effect we've seen over and over again in our history. Customers who have a great experience with their first Apple product often become loyal and happy owners of multiple Apple products over time.

As always, I'd like to thank our talented employees who make these results possible through the creativity and passion they bring to their work every day. And I'd like to thank our hundreds of millions of customers for their loyalty and enthusiasm and for continually inspiring us to surprise and delight them.

In addition to our quarterly results, we're also announcing an update to our capital return program today, and I'd like to share a few thoughts about our guiding principles for capital allocation and our conclusion on the changes we are making for this year. Apple has created tremendous value for shareholders by developing great products that enrich people's lives, and that will always be our top priority and driving force. We'll continue to innovate by investing in research and development and capitalizing on our strengths and hardware, software and services.

We'll keep investing in our supply chain to promote scale and efficiencies, expanding our global presence by building retail stores, investing in marketing and distribution, and extending our reach into new markets. We're expanding Apple's products and services into new categories and we are not going to underinvest in this business. We're also investing through acquisitions, and we've acquired 24 companies in the past 18 months.

To invest organically and to make acquisitions strategically, we need to maintain financial flexibility. With this framework in mind, Apple's Board and management team review capital allocation regularly and we solicit input on our program from a broad base of shareholders. We very much appreciate all of the input that so many of our shareholders have provided us on how best to deploy our cash.

We'll continue to seek investor input going forward, and will update you on our conclusions around this time each year. This regular process allows us to continually evaluate return of capital in light of the most current information available, and it enables us to be thoughtful about the size, mix, and pace of the program.

We continue to be in the fortunate position of being able to return significant capital to shareholders. We started doing so two years ago when we announced our first program of $45 billion, and we more than doubled the program last April to $100 billion. Today, we're announcing that we're increasing the size of our program once again with an addition of over $30 billion for a total program size of over $130 billion.

The size and pace of our program is unprecedented, and we still expect to complete it by December of 2015, as we announced last year. We think very deliberately about how much and in which way to return cash to our shareholders. We decided to continue to allocate the vast majority of the incremental capital return to share repurchases because we believe our current stock price does not reflect the full value of the Company.

The size of the share back increase is a signal of the Board and the management team's strong confidence in the future of Apple. We also understand the importance of the dividend to many of our investors and we're increasing it for the second time in less than two years. We believe this is a meaningful increase for those shareholders who value income, and we are planning for annual dividend increases going forward.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Luca for the details of our quarterly results, as well as more information about our capital return program.

LUCA MAESTRI, VP & CORPORATE CONTROLLER, APPLE INC: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone.

As Tim said, revenue for the March quarter was $45.6 billion, up $2 billion or 5% from a year ago, and above our guidance range. Sales in each of our major product categories were at the high end of our expectations or better, and the vast majority of the revenue upside came from strong sales of iPhone.

Gross margin was 39.3%, also above our guidance range, and operating margin was $13.6 billion, representing 29.8% of revenue. Net income was $10.2 billion, translating to diluted earnings per share of $11.62.

For details by product I'd like to start with iPhone. We sold 43.7 million iPhones, which was a March quarter record. That's an increase of 6.3 million iPhones over last year, and represents 17% growth.

The addition of China Mobile, coupled with great response to our more affordably-priced iPhone 4s, led to an all-time quarterly record for iPhone sales in greater China. We look forward to broadening our relationship with China Mobile, as they expand points of sale and continue to build out their 4G network.

In Japan, iPhone sales were up over 50% year over year, resulting in significant market share gains. As Tim mentioned, we also saw strong growth and share gains in many other major developed markets based on IDC's latest estimates for the March quarter.

iPhone also continued to perform exceptionally well in many developing markets. In greater China, Brazil, Indonesia, Poland and Turkey, iPhone sales grew by strong double digits year over year. And in India and Vietnam, sales more than doubled.

We exited the quarter with 15.4 million total iPhones in channel inventory, which represents a sequential increase of about 100,000 from the December quarter, and left us within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks. In the enterprise market, progressive IT organizations are leading the charge to replace legacy devices and systems and are using iPhone and iOS to drive innovation at their companies.

Deutsche Bank has nearly 20,000 iPhones running on its network and has created 40 internal apps that extend the capabilities of its mobile workforce. Siemens has 30,000 iPhones on its network and has deployed over 50 internal apps for field service teams, sales associates and corporate executives for solutions that are only possible with iOS and iPhone.

We're really happy with the continued growth and strength of the Apple ecosystem. Total revenue from iTunes software and services was $4.6 billion, an increase of 11% year over year and an all-time quarterly record.

Our iTunes stores generated record billings of $5.2 billion in the March quarter, up 24% year over year, driven by very strong growth in App Store sales. These iTunes billings translated to quarterly iTunes revenue of over $2.6 billion, up 9% from the year-ago quarter, and also a new all-time record. Software and services revenue was over $1.9 billion, up 14% from a year ago.

App Store momentum is incredibly strong as cumulative app downloads have topped 70 billion. 87% of iOS devices are now running iOS 7, and our highly engaged users are a great audience for developers. According to App Annie, the App Store generated 85% more global revenue than Google Play in the March quarter, despite the differences in unit market share between iOS and Android devices.

Now I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4.1 million Macs, compared to just under 4 million in the year-ago quarter, thanks to strong performance from MacBook Pro and MacBook Air, and Macs have now gained global market share for 31 of the last 32 quarters.

Response to Mavericks has been great, and we're very proud of the fact that so many of our Mac customers have taken advantage of the most advanced and secure experience possible. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory slightly below our 4 to 5 week target range.

Turning to iPad, we sold 16.4 million units. As Tim explained earlier, our iPad results and the comparison to the March quarter last year were heavily influenced by channel inventory changes. Specifically, this year we sold 16.4 million iPads into our channels and sold through almost 17.5 million, reducing our channel inventory by 1.1 million units.

Last year we sold over 19.4 million iPads into our channels and sold through 18 million, and therefore increased channel inventory by 1.4 million units. As a result, the year-over-year sell-through decline was only 3%, compared to the sell-in decline of 16%. We exited the March quarter with 5.1 million units of iPad channel inventory, which left us within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks.

iPad continues to lead all other tablets by far in terms of user engagement, size of ecosystem, customer satisfaction, and e-commerce. A recent study by Chitika Insights found that iPad users in North America generate almost four times the web traffic of all Android tablet users combined. In a February survey, ChangeWave measured a 98% customer satisfaction rate for both iPad Air and iPad mini with retina display, and also found that, among people planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, two-thirds plan to buy an iPad.

iPad continues to allow companies around the world to reimagine the way they use technology to drive efficiency and improve employee satisfaction. Thousands of iPads are used at FedEx every day. In an industry where efficiency is critical, FedEx pilots and maintenance crews around the world use iPad to transform operational processes, and save the company millions of dollars.

Eli Lilly has deployed over 20,000 iPads and 50 internal apps as part of a laptop replacement program that dramatically increased the productivity and capabilities of its employees. The US Department of Veterans Affairs is on its way to deploying iPads to 11,000 providers to transform the way doctors and patients interact.

As part of this initiative, a suite of applications has been developed to allow quick access to real-time, secure medical information, and in education, according to the latest data published by IDC, iPad has over 95% share of the US education tablet market. As teachers and students increasingly benefit from the growing range of engaging iBooks, textbooks and solutions that are helping to transform the education experience.

Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $150.6 billion in cash, plus marketable securities, a sequential decline of $8.3 billion. Our domestic cash was $18.4 billion at the end of the March quarter, a sequential decline of $16 billion, and $132.2 billion, or 88% of our total cash, was offshore.

Cash flow from operations was very strong at $13.5 billion for the quarter. In total, we executed almost $21 billion worth of capital return activities during the March quarter.

First, we launched our third accelerated share repurchase program in late January, to which we will acquire additional $12 billion of Apple stock. We received an initial delivery of 19.2 million shares under the ASR and we received the balance of shares due when the program concludes by December of this year.

Second, we paid $2.7 billion in dividends in February, and finally, we spent $6 billion on open market purchases of 11.4 million shares throughout the March quarter. At the end of March, we also started our second ASR program, which was launched in April of last year, resulting in the retirement of an additional 1.1 million shares.

I would like now to go into more detail about the expansion of our capital return program that we're announcing today. Let me start by summarizing the progress that we've made on the program we updated a year ago. By the end of March 2014, we've already taken action of $46 billion of the current $60 billion share repurchase authorization, over 75% of the program with seven quarters remaining to its completion.

We have acted aggressively and opportunistically and have delivered on our intention to return capital to shareholders at a fast pace. Including dividends and net share settlements, we've taken action of $66 billion of the total $100 billion program announced last year. Today we're taking additional steps that will increase the overall size of the program from $100 billion to over $130 billion, within the same time frame of December 2015 as before.

There are two elements to the expansion of the program. First, we're increasing the size of our share repurchase authorization from $60 billion to $90 billion. We are very confident in Apple's future and we believe our current stock price does not reflect the full value of the Company.

That's why the vast majority of our capital program continues to be allocated to share repurchases. We will also continue to net share settle restricted stock units and expect to utilize about $1 billion of cash annually for that purpose.

Second, our Board has declared a dividend of $3.29 per common share, payable on May 15, 2014, to shareholders of record as of May 12, 2014. That represents an increase of about 8% in our quarterly dividend. We understand the importance of dividend increases to many of our investors, and we're increasing the dividend for the second time in less than two years.

We are planning for continued annual increases and we are very proud that Apple is one of the largest dividend payers in the world with annual payments of $11 billion. All our capital return activities must be funded by domestic cash, which as I mentioned, was about $18 billion as we exited the March quarter and down from $39 billion in the quarter that we paid our first dividend. We will maintain sufficient domestic liquidity to grow the business and execute capital expenditures and acquisitions.

Thanks to Apple's strong growth and international expansion in recent years, we've built substantial offshore cash balances. To repatriate our foreign cash under current US tax law, we would incur significant cash tax consequences and we don't believe this would be in the best interest of our shareholders. We continue to advocate for comprehensive corporate tax reform and streamlining the tax code, which we believe would be of great benefit to the US economy.

To execute our updated capital return program in a tax-efficient manner and leverage our very strong balance sheet, we intend to access the debt markets again. We plan to be active in both the domestic and international bond markets during 2014 for an amount of term debt financing similar to what we issued in 2013, with the breakdown between markets, currencies and tenors, to be determined over the course of the year, and subject to prevailing conditions in each market.

We have also prepared ourselves to access the commercial paper market given the substantial short-term liquidity and flexibility that this channel can provide.

Now as we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call.

We expect revenue to be between $36 billion and $38 billion, compared to $35.3 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margins to be between 37% and 38%. We expect OpEx to be between $4.4 billion and $4.5 billion.

We are continuing to invest heavily in R&D for current revenue-generating categories, as well as future products and services. We expect OI&E to be about $200 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.1%.

And now I'd like to turn it back to Tim.

TIM COOK: Thanks, Luca.

In addition to the changes to our capital return program, today we're also announcing a seven for one split of Apple common stock, which will occur in June of this year.

We're taking this action to make Apple stock more accessible to a larger number of investors. Each shareholder of record at the close of business on June 2, 2014, will receive six additional shares for every outstanding share held on the record date, and trading will begin on a split adjusted basis on June 9, 2014.

Finally, before we start the Q&A, I'd like to take a minute to talk about my dear friend and colleague Peter Oppenheimer. As you know, Peter will be transitioning from the CFO role in June. Peter has been Apple's CFO for 10 years, and the list of his accomplishments is immense.

Apple is now more than 20 times the size it was when Peter became our CFO, and his expertise, leadership, and incredibly hard work have been instrumental to the Company's success. I'd like to thank him very publicly for his contributions to Apple, from the very bottom of my heart, and wish him all the best in his approaching retirement at the end of September. And I'd also like to recognize him, that he has never missed guidance in the 10 years as CFO, which must be an all-time record for CFOs.

We're really happy and fortunate to have someone with Luca's talent on-board to replace Peter. He has over 25 years of experience building and leading finance teams and global companies, and has an exceptionally broad international background, which you might be able to detect from his accent.

He's been managing most of Apple's financial functions since coming on board last year and has done an outstanding job. I'm looking forward to working with Luca even closer as Apple's next CFO.

With that I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Tim. We'd like to ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up, please. Operator, may we have the first question?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATHRYN HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Tim, if I heard you right, the $800 million account is a staggering jump from the last time you reported the number, and yet iTunes software services growth decelerated again this quarter. Can you talk a little about your view on the importance of better monetizing the installed base in the future? And then I have a follow-up.

TIM COOK: Keep in mind, in that category, there's a -- several things, not just the App Store kind of revenues. So if you looked at App Store only, it would look a little different than what you're saying.

But in terms of your question about monetization, I do believe that we can monetize more than we are from a services point of view in existing areas and in new areas. And I'm particularly encouraged that when I look at the App Store and how it's doing, the strength was broad-based. In fact, in China, the growth was in the triple digits.

KATHRYN HUBERTY: And then question around iPhone ASPs, just looking at the trend, iPhone 5s demand has surprised the upside over the cycle. Does that give you any confidence that Apple could actually charge more for highly innovative products in the future, or does the strategy remain to add innovation at the same price as previous versions of a product?

TIM COOK: We price things that we think, or price them in such a way that we think is a fair price for the value that we're delivering. And we make those decisions on each thing as it gets closer time to come to market.

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Can you walk through the key drivers of the June quarter gross margin guidance off of what was admittedly very sharp upside for the March quarter?

LUCA MAESTRI: Sure, Bill, I'll take that. So March quarter was very good, as you said. There were three reasons for it.

We had, obviously, better volume, as you've seen from our revenue results. We had better cost than anticipated, and we had some favorable mix of both products and services.

As we get into Q3, obviously, as you've seen from our revenue guidance, we are expecting some loss of leverage, which will come from the sequential decline in revenue. It's about 19% at the midpoint of the range. And we're also expecting less favorable mix.

This is something very typical that happens to us as we move farther away from the quarter when we launch the new products. To offset that, it's only going to be a partial offset, we will have some cost improvements.

BILL SHOPE: And then looking at the iPhone upside for the March quarter, obviously it looks like China was a key driver here but within the US, did you see as much pressure from the changes in US carrier upgrade policies that you had discussed last quarter? And was demand just strong enough to completely counter that? And then is this headwind behind us now and potentially a tailwind in the US as we head into the June quarter?

TIM COOK: We saw some pressure in the quarter because of the stricter enforcement of upgrade policies. This is primarily in the US, as I had mentioned last time.

But if you really look at iPhone, the strength of iPhone was very broad-based, and as I had mentioned, we gained share in a whole host of markets, from developing markets like the US, UK, France, Germany, to more of emerging markets like China, Vietnam, and had the largest total sales of iPhone in the BRIC countries that we've ever seen in our history. And so, we feel very good about the -- that the strength was broad-based.

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I have one question for Luca and a follow-up for Tim, please. Luca, on the iPhone ASPs this quarter, they were down a little over $40. I think that was the largest sequential decline that we've seen in history. I was wondering if you could help us understand what drove that? Was it entirely mix?

You mentioned good growth in each of the three models, but were you seeing particularly strong growth in the 4s? I think you mentioned that in China. And how significant, if any, was selling older generation 4 iPhone 4s?

LUCA MAESTRI: Yes, Toni. When you look at the $41 of decline, I would say about half of that was driven by the fact that we have continued to do very well in emerging markets with the 4s.

I have mentioned that there's a lot of markets where we've grown very strongly, in Latin America, in Asia-Pacific, in Eastern Europe. So about half of that decline came from the stronger sales of the 4s. And then the rest was primarily the fact that, again, as we move away from the quarter where we launch the product, we tend to have lower capacity mix in our numbers.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Tim, I was wondering if you could talk about how you think about replacement cycles generally for the iPhone over the longer term. Clearly, US carriers have started introducing plans that may ultimately encourage people to keep their phone longer than two years because their total price paid is less.

And so one could argue, and I'd like your opinion on whether you think that could push out replacement cycles, I guess the other consideration is the imperative for Apple to continue to introduce really great products to want to have people upgrade at the same frequency, and I guess the dilemma in doing that is, as we've seen with the 5 and with the 4, is introducing really great products typically puts pressure on your bomb and pressures margins.

So perhaps you could just tell us how you think conceptually about where you think replacement cycles go over time and why? And then secondly, how do you address this dilemma of, well, in order to make a great phone, it typically costs more to do so, and managing that potential margin pressure?

TIM COOK: There's a lot there. Let me see if I can address it quickly. I want to just add one thing to the point that you asked Luca.

Just to be clear on the iPhone 4 question, we sold a very, very low single-digit percentage of those and so it had extremely minimal impact of results on the quarter. In terms of the general upgrade, or the installed base, some of the programs that the carriers are running may serve to increase the upgrade cycle, because there's some areas where customers can pay a bit more in the beginning and have the ability to essentially upgrade each year. And so I think there's some that work that way. I think there's some that work more the way that you're leaning, and how these balance are very difficult, currently, to conclude.

But regardless of how those balance, what I see as the bigger opportunity for Apple is that the smartphone market is still only 1 billion, or so units and it will eventually take over the entire mobile phone market. We've seen our ability to attract new users to iPhone to be very significant in the emerging markets.

We were seeing new-to-iPhone numbers on the iPhone 4s sales in the 80 percentages, and in certain large geos. And so this, to us, gives us a great comfort that we can continue to grow. And we may not be able to attract some of those buyers to our top phone because of price point. But if we can get them in on the entry iPhone, it gives them a great product at a great value and gets them into the ecosystem. And as you know from following us for a while, our ability to keep customers is very good and our ability to show other products that Apple produces to a family that's buying Apple products is also very good.

So, at the macro level I see the opportunity of the market and getting more people into the Apple ecosystem much larger than any of the noise around the different carrier plans, some of which I think help, and some which I think work the opposite way. And it's completely unclear to me how those net.

It's probably also important to know that the bulk of the things you're seeing in the US are not occurring in many of the other geos in terms of the upgrade policies and so forth. Each country has its own kind of cadence associated with this. The US is, it's in the 30 percentages of our business, not 100, so it's important to weigh it with the proper perspective.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And any comments on the latter part of that around the imperative to continue to come out with really great products that ensure people have an incentive to upgrade? Yet when we've seen you really revolutionize phones between iterations, we've seen margin pressure?

TIM COOK: The most important thing, Toni, that we do is to make great products that really get our users excited to want the next one and that will always be the case. And you can bet that that's where the vast majority of all of our attention is, is on doing those things. In terms of the bomb pressure of any new product, you have seen in the past that exists, I think you've also seen that we have a way of working down the cost curve.

That was certainly very key in achieving the 39.3% gross margin for this past quarter, and as I said before, we price things at a level that is fair for the value that we're providing. And so, we're certainly not stuck on certain price points. We price at values that are fair for the value that we're delivering.

OPERATOR: Steve Milunovich, UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Tim, I understand that the iPad's not as weak as it appears on a sell-through basis, but still, it's relatively flat over the last year in terms of sell-through. What are your thoughts in terms of why that is and can that accelerate with Office on the iPad going forward?

TIM COOK: It's a good question. Let's talk about iPad a little more than we did in the comments.

When I back up from iPad, here's what I see. It's the -- absolutely has been the fastest-growing product in Apple's history. And it's been the only product that we've ever made that was instantly a hit in three of our key markets, from consumer, to business, including the enterprise, and education.

And so, if you really look at it in just four years after we launched the very first iPad, we've sold over 210 million, which is more than we or, I think, anyone thought was possible at that period of time, and it's interesting to note that that's almost twice as many iPhones as we had sold in a comparable period of time and over seven times as many iPods as we had sold in the period of time. So I think it's important to put that in perspective. We've come a long way very, very quickly.

Looking at it by market a bit, which I think is important, I think Luca mentioned a little bit of this in his comments. In the education market in the US we have a 95% share. And so the focus in education is on penetration, is on getting more schools to buy, and my belief is the match has been lit and it's very clear to the educators that have studied this, is that student achievement is higher with iPad in the classroom than without it.

So I'm confident we've got a really great start in education, far beyond the US now. This is happening in many, many parts of the world.

In the enterprise market, we're seeing virtually all, 98% of the Fortune 500, that are using iPad, and we're seeing, according to Good Technology, who looks at activations of tablets, the latest data we have from them is that 91% of the activations of tablets in enterprise were iPads. And so this is also an astonishing number and many of those enterprises are writing apps that are key proprietary apps for running that business, and this is great for that company because they're more productive as a result of that.

And so once again, our -- just like in education, in a way, what we have to do in enterprise is focus on penetration. It has to be deeper and broader, but in terms of having people begin the process, beginning writing apps, we're doing a pretty good job of that.

In the retail market, if you look at the US as a proxy, the NPD numbers for March just came out a few days ago and we had 46% share. And embedded in that 46%, there's a lot of things in there that I personally wouldn't put in the same category as iPad, and that are weighing the share down. It's certainly a market we wouldn't play in, and a type of product you would never see an Apple brand on. So, we feel like we're doing well there.

Office, I believe, does help. It's very unclear to say how much. I believe that if it would have been done earlier, it would have been even better for Microsoft, frankly. There's lots of alternatives out there from productivity point of view, some of which we brought to the market, some of which many, many innovative companies have brought.

But I do see that Office is still a very key franchise in the enterprise, in particular, and I think having it on iPad is good, and I whole-heartedly welcome Microsoft to the App Store to sell Office. Our customers are clearly responding in a good way that it's available. So, I do think it helps us, particularly in the enterprise area.

The other things you look at on iPad that are just blow-away is customer sat is 98. There's almost nothing in the world with a 98% customer sat. And the intention-to-buy numbers look good, with two-thirds of the people planning to buy a tablet are planning to buy an iPad.

The usage numbers are off the charts, far and exceeding Android tablets, four times the web traffic of all Android tablets combined. And so when I back up from all of these, I feel great. That doesn't mean that every quarter, every 90 days is going to be a number that everybody's thrilled with. But what it means to me is that the trend over time, over the arc of time, that things look very, very good, that iPad has a great future.

And of course the thing that drives us more than any of this are the next iPads, if you will. The things that are in the pipeline, the things that we can do to make the product even better. And there's no shortage of work going in on that, nor any shortage of ideas.

And so when I back up from all of this, I can't help but still be extremely excited about where we are. And I think we did a reasonable job of explaining what we think the disconnect was between what we had expected, which we hit it at the high end of our expectation, and the street's view of this one. And I believe the vast majority of it is that first thing was just channel inventory, that maybe we should have been even clearer on last quarter to take into account. I am very bullish on iPad.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: One other question: when you look at Google and Amazon and Facebook, they very much diversify their business over time in a way that one has rarely seen. Apple, sort of the opposite.

People say you ought to buy this or that, and you will do acquisitions, but you're obviously very focused. Is that because it's just a management philosophy of wanting to be more focused than some of these other companies, or is there something about Apple's product set, particularly being more hardware-oriented, that prevents you from saying yes, let's go make TV shows, or let's go off and do something else, even though you probably have the money and the technical capability to do other things?

TIM COOK: The key thing that for us, Steve, is to stay focused on things that we can do best and that we can perform at a really high level of quality that our customers have come to expect. And so we currently feel comfortable in expanding the number of things we're working on, and so we've been doing that in the background and we're not ready yet to pull the string on the curtain. But we've got some great things there that we're working on that I'm very, very proud of and very, very excited about.

But for us, we care about every detail. And when you care about every detail and getting it right, it takes a bit longer to do that. And it's -- and that's always been the case. That's not something that just occurred.

We, as you probably know from following us for a long time, we didn't ship the first MP3 player, nor the first smartphone, nor the first tablet. In fact, there were tablets being shipped a decade or so of before then. But arguably we shipped the first successful modern tablet, the first successful modern smartphone, and the first successful modern MP3 player. And so it means much more to us to get is right than to be first.

And I think you can see so many examples out in the marketplace where it's clear that the objective has been to be first. But customers, at the end of the day, don't care about that, or that's not what they look for from Apple. They want great, insanely great, and that's what we want to deliver, and so that's the way we look at it.

From an acquisition point of view, we have done 24 in 18 months. That shows that we're on the prowl, I suppose you could say.

We look for companies that have great people and great technology and that fit culturally, and we don't have a rule that says we can't spend a lot, or whatever. We'll spend what we think is a fair price. What's important to us is that strategically it makes sense, and that it winds up adding value to our shareholders over the long haul.

We are not in a race to spend the most or acquire the most. We're in a race to make the world's best products, that really enrich people's lives. And so to the tune that acquisitions can help us do that, and they've done that and continue to do that, then we will acquire. And so you can bet that you will continue to see acquisitions, and some of which we'll try to keep quiet, and some of which seems to be impossible to keep quiet.

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: In terms of a question for Tim, can you talk a bit about the competitive landscape for smartphones? If you look at some of your competitors seem to have cut prices fairly quickly in the most recent product cycle, perhaps faster than before. You've got Microsoft about to close on Nokia, Lenovo's buying Motorola, there's a lot going on from a sort of competitive standpoint. So I'm curious as to you how you're seeing the market.

TIM COOK: There's a lot of moving parts, a lot of acquisitions, a lot of people giving up to some degree and deciding to do other things. And so -- but at the end of the day, we see it much like we've always seen it, as -- . The part of the market that we're interested in is the market of people that really want the best smartphones, and that doesn't mean that they're all at the high end of the price span. We have smartphones that go down to a very affordable price with the 4s, because we're proud to ship that product.

I think that this quarter, if you were unsure, hopefully this quarter demonstrates to you that we can do well in a number of geographies, from emerging markets to developed markets. Some of the numbers that we've experienced, just to quote some of the more historic prepaid markets, through the first half of 2014, Brazil was up 61%, Russia was up 97%, Turkey was up 56%, India was up 55%, Vietnam was up 262%. I could go on.

But the point is that there's a number of markets out there where we're beginning to really catch on to a number of customers, and I am particularly proud of the results in these markets, because these have not been historic strong points for Apple. We've been working at China for a while and have learned a lot, and I'm very proud of what we've done there. But I think some of these other numbers I just read demonstrates that we're beginning to have really nice success outside of there, as well.

SHANNON CROSS: And then, if you can just, actually as a follow-up, on the China side, I think it grew at 13% year-over-year. You mentioned, obviously, China Mobile as being a driver of that. But can you talk about some of the other categories, as well, and perhaps some of the other carriers, in terms of where you're seeing demand out of China?

TIM COOK: Yes, really great question. We did have an all-time revenue record in greater China, just under $10 billion at $9.8 billion. iPhone sales were up 28%, that's versus the IDC's market forecast of 20% growth, so we gained share.

Mac units were up double-digit, in particular they were up 13%. And that's far outpacing IDC's PC market forecast of a negative 8%. So we gained share there, as well.

If you look at the iTunes software and services revenue in China, we more than doubled it year-over-year. We were in the triple-digits percentages.

And if you look at iPad and you take out the channel inventories, the ins and outs and look at demand instead of sell-in, we grew by 6%, and that compares to IDC's forecast of a flat tablet market in China for last quarter, and so, we literally did well in every single area in China. It wasn't just because we were able to come to an agreement with the world's largest carrier. That was certainly key, but as you can tell from the rest of these numbers, there are other things going on.

Also, I mentioned this briefly with Steve, that I think it's important to point out that if you look at some of the numbers we're seeing on first-time iPhone buyers, people that bought the iPhone 4s, 85%, were first-time iPhone buyers. And the 5c, 69% first-time iPhone buyers. So these are extraordinary, and as you would expect, these are also heavily Android switchers.

62% of the people that bought the 4s switched from Android. 60% of the people that bought the 5c switched from Android. And so we're incredibly pleased with this.

For the first half, including our retail stores, greater China revenue topped $19 billion. So this is at 21% year-over-year and is our fastest-growing region. So we're looking at this data and deciding to continue investing in a big way.

We plan to triple the number of Apple retail stores over the next two years. We're continuing to expand in online. We're continuing to build out the channel. We're up to 40,000 points of sale now on iPhone. But we're not nearly where we need to be on the rest of our product line, and even the 40,000 is a low number, considering the broad land mass and the number of folks in China. And so, I feel like there's still loads of opportunity there, and feel really, really good about how we're doing.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Tim, I want to talk a little about some of your comments at the recent shareholder meeting. You mentioned that Apple TV is no longer a hobby. I wanted to hear a little about why you made that distinction.

Separately, it would be interesting to hear your feedback on the HBO, Amazon announcement today, and what you think that means, if anything, in terms of some content partners be able to work with more players like yourself.

TIM COOK: Good questions, Gene. The reason that I stripped off the hobby label is that when you look at the sales of the Apple TV box itself, and you look at content that was bought directly off of Apple TV for 2013, that number was over $1 billion. And so it didn't feel right to me to refer to something that's over $1 billion as a hobby.

Also, from an investment point of view, we continue to make the product better and better, and so it doesn't feel right from that point of view either. We have HBO GO already on Apple TV and you have to authenticate in order to use it, but you have to do that with Amazon service as well from my brief read of their announcement.

I think they, in addition to that, got some older content from HBO to put on there. I haven't had a chance to evaluate exactly what it is, and don't have a personal point of view on that yet.

But if I look broadly at the contents on Apple TV, I think it compares extremely favorable to the content that is on the Amazon box. We've sold now, Gene, about 20 million of the Apple TVs, and so we've got a pretty large install base there. And I'm feeling quite good about that business and where it can go.

NANCY PAXTON: Replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes Store as a Webcast on apple.com/investor and via telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 5206019.

And these replays will be available by approximately 5 PM Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896 and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions, Joan is 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: And with that, ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc. | cmbile : China Mobile Communications Corp
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i7902202 : Cellular Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140425ea4n0086h
  


 HD
 Q1  2014 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,827 words
   PD
27 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to this Apple Incorporated first quarter fiscal year 2014 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking first today is Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by CEO, Tim Cook, and Vice President and Corporate Controller, Luca Maestri, for the Q&A session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10K for 2013 the and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you Nancy. We are very pleased to report the results of the first quarter of Apple's fiscal year 2014. We established new all-time quarterly records for iPhone and iPad sales, and had one of our best Mac quarters ever driving the highest quarterly revenue and operating profit in Apple's history. We were also very pleased with our results in emerging markets around the world.

Revenue for the quarter was $57.6 billion, up $3.1 billion or 6% from the year ago quarter, and near the high end of our guidance range. No technology company has ever generated that much revenue in a single quarter, and we're especially pleased to have generated that record despite foreign exchange headwinds, the year-over-year decline in iPod sales, and the higher revenue deferral rates from iOS devices and Macs that we discussed last quarter. These three factors negatively impacted revenue by about $2.5 billion, and without them, our year-over-year revenue growth would've been about 10%.

Gross margin was 37.9%, above the high end of our guidance range and operating margin was an all-time record of $17.5 billion, representing 30.3% of revenue. Net income was $13.1 billion, translating to diluted earnings per share of $14.50, a new record.

As for the details of the quarter I'd like to begin with iPhone. Despite supply constraints on iPhone 5S, we sold 51 million iPhones, compared to 47.8 million in the year ago quarter. That's an increase of over 3 million phones, or 7%, and a new quarterly record.

IPhone sales growth was very strong year-over-year in Japan, thanks to the addition of NTT DoCoMo in September and our continued partnership with Softech and KDDI. In fact, based on the latest data published by Kantar, iPhone accounts were 69% share of the smartphone market in Japan.

We also generated strong year-over-year iPhone growth in greater China, Latin America, the Middle East and Russia. In the US market Apple remains the leading smartphone manufacturer, with iPhone accounting for 41% of smartphone subscribers in the three-month period ending in November, according to comScore. We are very pleased to have reached a multi-year agreement with China Mobile, the largest network in the world, with over 750 million customers, and to be selling iPhones through their expansive network of stores beginning on January 17.

China is an incredibly important market to Apple, and iOS devices already account for 57% of all mobile web browsing in China. IPhone customers are loving their phones and continue to the highest loyalty rate in the industry. A December survey of US customers by ChangeWave indicated a 96% customer satisfaction rate for iPhone, and based on the latest data provided by Kantar, iPhone customers have a 90% loyalty rate, significantly higher than the competition.

We exited the quarter with about 15.3 million total iPhones in channel inventory, which represented a sequential increase of less than 1 million units from the September quarter, and left us within our target range of four to six weeks of iPhone channel inventory. The release of new iPhones with iOS 7 introduced powerful security and management features for business and enterprise customers, and iOS 7 has received FIPS 140-2 certification from the US Federal Government.

These features, coupled with ease of developing customer enterprise apps, continue to make iPhone the device of choice for large organizations. Many companies including Accenture, Cisco and American Airlines, have tens of thousands of employees using iPhones for work.

In fact, some, including Deloitte and GE, have over 50,000 iPhones each on their networks around the world. And based on the latest data published by IDC, combining business, government and education institutions, iPhone has a 59% share of the US commercial smartphone market.

Turning to iPad, despite supply constraints, we sold over 26 million iPads during the quarter, compared to 22.9 million in the year ago quarter. That's an increase of over 3 million iPads or 14%, and represents a new all-time quarterly sales record. IPad sales were very robust in mainland China, where sales more than doubled year-over-year. We also experienced strong iPad sales growth in the Middle East, Latin America, Russia, and parts of Western Europe.

Customers are loving the new iPad Air and iPad Mini with retina display introduced in October, and response to the more affordable iPad Mini has been very strong. In fact, a November ChangeWave survey of customers planning to buy a tablet within 90 days found that 72% plan to purchase an iPad, and among customers who already owned an iPad, the survey measured a 97% satisfaction rate. We exited the quarter with 6.2 million units of iPad channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 2.1 million units, which placed us within our target range of four to six weeks of iPad channel inventory.

Based on the latest data published by IDC, iPad has a 78% share of the US commercial tablet market, and iPad continues to spark innovation for businesses around the world. Leveraging custom developed and App Store apps, progressive IT organizations have embraced mobility, armed employees with iPad, and fundamentally changed the way people do their jobs. British Airways has deployed thousands of iPads to their employees across the business, including senior cabin staff, engineers, check-in staff, pilots and ground crew.

At Kindred Healthcare, iPads are now being used by the sales team, executive, and thousands of therapists nationwide, resulting in millions of dollars in estimated savings and productivity gains for Kindred and their customers. In this football season nearly every team in the NFL used iPads as play books, replacing their traditional three-ring paper binders.

In the education market schools continue to choose iPad and the great content available across apps, books, and courses. To date, US education institutions have purchased over 7 million iPads. In fact, we've sold over 750,000 iPads to K-12 schools in the state of Texas alone, including 7,000 iPads rolling out to all K-12 students in the Midway Independent School District.

We have expanded the availability of iBook textbooks from 4 countries to over 50 countries, so that students and teachers around the world can experience the power of what a textbook can be. We continue to add more titles and key education publishers like Oxford University Press, and Cambridge University Press.

In addition, nearly 25,000 books have been created and published by individual educators using iBooks Author, bringing lessons to life in exciting new ways, and over 1,000 institutions are delivering courses and content through iTunes U. At the Ohio State University, where there are over 20,000 iPads on campus, faculty have developed over 70 iTunes U courses in less than one school year.

We remain very focused on providing a great user experience for our iPhone and iPad customers and we're extremely pleased that the iOS platform continues to lead the industry in user engagement. According to IBM's digital analytics benchmark, iOS devices accounted for more than twice the online traffic and more than five times the online sales compared to Android devices on both Black Friday and Christmas Day. IBM reported that iOS devices represented 32.6% of online traffic on December 25, and more than double the 14.8% for Android, while iOS devices drove 23% of online sales that day, five times the 4.6% for Android.

According to the latest reports by Check Insights, iPhone accounted for 54% of North American smartphone web traffic, while iPad accounted for 78% of tablet traffic. These usage percentages are far greater than the share of the smartphone and tablet markets represented by our devices, and they underscore just how engaging and important our iPhones and iPads are to the people who own them.

We are also very pleased with our customers' adoption of iOS 7. As of this month, 80% of iOS devices are running iOS 7. That dwarfs the single-digit adoption percentage measured for the latest version of the Android operating system, and makes iOS 7 the most popular operating system in the world. The rapid transition to the latest version of iOS provides a more advanced and secure experience for our customers and a more streamlined opportunity for our developers.

Turning to Mac, we sold for 4.8 million Macs, compared to 4.1 million in the year ago quarter, an increase of 19%, making this among our best Mac quarters ever. The growth was driven by significantly increased sales of iMac and MacBook Air, while sales of MacBook Pro also remained strong. Mac sales grew in each of our operating segments led by Europe and greater China.

We were also very pleased to have generated such strong results from our Mac products, particularly given IDC's most recently published estimate of a 6% year-over-year contraction in worldwide personal computer sales. Macs have now gained global market share for 30 of the last 31 quarters.

We were happy to begin selling the all-new Mac Pro last month, manufactured in the US, and we've had great customer response to OS X Mavericks, now available for free and running on millions of Macs around the world. And we're also delighted to be providing our groundbreaking iWork productivity apps for free of charge to our Mac, iPhone and iPad customers. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory that was within our four to five week target range.

30 years ago this week Apple launched the Macintosh. Not only was the Macintosh a breakthrough for the personal computer, it was also a promise that the power of technology taken from the few and put in the hands of everyone could change the world. Over the past 30 years, people have done extraordinary things with the Mac and with the Apple products it inspired.

To coincide with the 30 year mark, we've taken a look at what people have accomplished on a special website that showcases their Mac stories. Their achievements are result of Apple's continued commitment to create and deliver the best technology to people all overt the world every day. Happy birthday Mac, imagine what we can accomplish in the next 30 years.

We continue to be very pleased with the growth of iTunes software and services, and the strength of the Apple ecosystem. Total revenue from iTunes software and services was $4.4 billion, an increase of 19% year-over-year. Our iTunes Stores generated record billings of $4.7 billion in the December quarter, thanks primarily to strong growth in App Store sales. The quarter's iTunes billings translated to quarterly iTunes revenue of over $2.4 billion, up 14% from the year ago quarter and a new all-time record.

Software and services revenue was about $2 billion, up 26% from the year ago quarter, and also a new record. We achieved these records despite the fact we are now making iPhoto, iMovie, pagers, numbers, and keynote free with new iOS device purchases and we are also making Mavericks, iLife and iWork free to our Mac customers.

As we mentioned last quarter, we are now deferring a greater amount of revenue for each new iOS device and Mac sold as a result of this free software and associated upgrade rights. At the end of the quarter our total deferred revenue from all sources was $11.4 billion, and we expect to realize $8.4 billion of it in the next four quarters.

The App Store now offers 1 million apps in 24 categories, and cumulative downloads have surpassed 65 billion. Our app developers earned $2 billion from sales for the App Store in the December quarter. That translates to $15 billion in cumulative App Store earnings for our developers, about half of which was generated in the last four quarters, and we are thrilled with the success that they have achieved.

In China specifically, we have an incredibly vibrant iOS and Mac developer community. Developers in China have created over 130,000 apps on the App Store to date.

A recent study by Business Insider Intelligence indicated that iOS has a 5 times advantage over Android when it comes to developer revenue per app download, a 4 times advantage in revenue from in app purchases, and a 2 times advantage in revenue from paid downloads plus in app purchases. And according to a recent report from Distmo, the App Store has a 63% to 37% market share advantage over Google Play in global revenue from apps.

Top developers continue to launch their apps first or exclusively on the App Store. Examples of highly successful launches from 2013 include Temple Run 2 and Cut the Rope 2, which generated millions of downloads in multi-week periods of App Store exclusivity.

Natural Motion recently launched Clumsy Ninja exclusively on iOS and saw 10 million downloads in the first week. And Plants Versus Zombies 2 resulted in the biggest game title launch ever for Electronic Arts Pop Cap, with 16 million downloads from the App Store in the first five days alone.

With the introduction of iOS 7, developers are able to create stunning apps that take advantage of the redesigned user interface and more than 200 new features and APIs. And many of the App Store's biggest recent successes, including Candy Crush Saga, Puzzle and Dragons, Minecraft, Quiz Up, and Clumsy Ninja were created by international developers. The seamless integration of the iOS platform, the global reach of our ecosystem, our thoughtful app review process, and our highly engaged customers continue to make the App Store a superior market place for our extremely talented developer community.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue for the quarter was $7 billion, a new quarterly record and an increase of 9% from the year ago quarter. The growth was fueled by record iPhone and iPad sales through the stores as well as Mac -- as well as strong Mac sales.

We completed or remodeled six stores and opened four new stores during the quarter, ending with a total of 420 stores, including 166 outside the United States. With an average of 418 stores open during the December quarter, average revenue per store was $16.7 million compared to $16.3 million in the year ago quarter. Retail segment income was $1.7 billion.

We hosted 114 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, which translates to almost 21,000 visitors per store per week. We were excited to roll out iBeacon technology at our stores in the US during the quarter, enabling shoppers to receive iPhone notifications about products and services via the Apple Store app.

IBeacon transmitters use Bluetooth wireless technology to sense a shopper's exact location inside an Apple Store and send messages based on the aisle or product a customer is near. For example, customers walking by an iPhone table could receive a message offering to help them check their upgrade eligibility or trade-in value of an existing phone. We expect to see many innovative uses of iBeacon technology from other businesses and developers in the coming months, including retailers and professional sports.

Total company operating expenses were $4.4 billion, and included $572 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $246 million, and the tax rate for the quarter was 26.2%.

And turning to our cash; we ended the quarter with $158.8 billion in cash, plus short-term and long-term marketable securities, a sequential increase of $12 billion from the September quarter. Our domestic cash was $34.4 billion at the end of the December quarter, a sequential decline of $1.1 billion. $124.4 billion, or 78% of our total cash, was offshore at the end of the December quarter and cash flow from operations was $22.7 billion.

We paid $2.7 billion in dividends in the quarter, and we executed an additional $5 billion in repurchases of 9.6 million shares of Apple stock during the quarter. This brings us to a cumulative total of over $43 billion in payments for dividends and share repurchases over the last six quarters, of which share buybacks were $28 billion.

This has resulted in cumulative retirement of 56.5 million shares and represents 6% of the total shares outstanding prior to the launch of the repurchase program. Our Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $3.05 per common share, payable on February 13, 2014, to the shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 10, 2014.

Now, as we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $42 billion and $44 billion, compared to $43.6 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 37% and 38%, reflecting approximately $110 million related to stock-based compensation expense.

We expect OpEx to be between $4.3 billion and $4.4 billion, including about $590 million related to stock-based compensation. We are continuing to invest heavily in R&D, in both current revenue generating categories as well as future products and services. We expect OI&E to be about $200 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.2%.

In closing, we are very pleased with our record iPhone and iPad sales, the strong performance of our Mac products, and the growth of iTunes software and services revenue. We are thrilled to have the most satisfied, loyal and engaged customers in our industry, and we are constantly working to make the user experience even better for them. We are continuing to invest heavily in our future and remain very confident in our new product pipeline. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Peter. We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katie Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATIE HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Peter, revenue guidance embeds a sequential decline that's bigger than what you experienced in the March 2013 quarter, and I think implies iPhone units may not grow in the March quarter year-on-year. So can you just talk about what's driving the cautious view on the top line for March?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Katie, the biggest reason for the larger sequential decline in revenue this year relates to changes in channel inventory between the years. And I'll go through some detail, but let me actually do it on a year-over-year basis. I'd like to go through some things about the guidance and I think you'll see that the underlying performance of our business is stronger than what the guidance might imply.

We expect four factors to negatively impact the year-over-year revenue comparison by over $2 billion. These are channel inventory increases in the year ago quarter that we don't expect to repeat, lower iPod sales, a stronger US dollar against a number of currencies, particularly the yen and the Australian dollar, and the higher per unit deferral for Mac and iOS devices that I talk about in my prepared remarks. Let me go through these a little more.

First beginning with channel inventory. In the March quarter last year we increased channel inventory for both iPhone and iPad, whereas this year we increased the channel inventory for both product families in the December quarter, and we exited within our target range of channel inventory.

For iPhone, specifically last year, the supply of iPhone 5 was short for the entire December quarter and we were not able to achieve supply and demand balance for iPhone 5 until the March quarter. As a result we increased the iPhone inventory last year by about 1.1 million units. In contrast, this year we executed the fastest rollout for our new iPhones and we included China in wave one in the launch in September and we were able to exit the quarter in supply and demand balance.

For iPad, we introduced the Mini in the December quarter last year and we were not able to meet demand in any week of the quarter. We didn't reach supply and demand balance for the iPad Mini until the March quarter last year and we increased inventory in the March quarter by 1.4 million units. In contrast, this year we exited the December quarter near supply and demand dot balance.

So looking past the inventory changes year-to-year we expect the value of the underlying sell through to grow year-over-year. And we are very confident in what we are shipping.

Turning to iPods, sales declined by 52% year-over-year in the December quarter and we would expect them to continue to decline year-over-year in the March quarter. And FX is a headwind for us with the strengthening dollars against a number of currency. So when you consider these factors, we are very pleased with the underlying performance of the business and the revenue growth is stronger than what the guidance might imply.

KATIE HUBERTY: Okay, and Peter you are guiding OpEx flattish sequentially despite the big revenue down tick. Are there any one-time items in SG&A and R&D in the March quarter or is the run rate reflective of investments for future opportunities?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: It's definitely the latter and let me have Luca take you through some details.

LUCA MAESTRI, VP AND CORPORATE CONTROLLER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Hi Katie. So yes, at the midpoint of the range of our guidance we are expecting a minor decrease of $50 million. This is largely due to the lower variable expenses that we are going to have in line with the seasonal sequential decline in revenue.

But one thing that Peter are ready mentioned in his remarks is that we continue to invest very heavily in R&D. We are making investments in areas that are visible to all of you today, but also in areas that are not visible which we're very excited about. And for the things that are not visible to you, obviously we're investing ahead of the revenue that these products and services will generate in the future. So there is nothing that is one off in nature in our guidance.

KATIE HUBERTY: Okay. Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Katie. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Goldman Sachs, Bill Shope.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I have a question on the revenue guidance as well. The ramp of China Mobile would presumably act as a tailwind to the March quarter, yet that's not apparent in the numbers. Can you comment on how you're thinking about demand trends for China Mobile and perhaps how it compares to prior large carrier ramp?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Bill, this is Peter. Let me start and Tim may want to add some comments.

We're thrilled to be working with China Mobile, and DoCoMo also, we had a great lunch with both carriers. DoCoMo in the December quarter, and China Mobile just in the last couple of weeks.

These carrier additions will have a positive impact on our iPhone sales year-over-year. China Mobile's 4G service is only available in 16 cities today. They plan to complete the rollout of more than 500,000 4G base stations, which will cover more than 340 cities by year-end.

With the addition of DoCoMo last quarter we were able to achieve 69% smartphone market share in Japan, which we're thrilled with. However the benefit of these two carrier additions this quarter is being partially offset by a couple things. First of all, the comparison last year from our late launch of the iPhone 5 and the new iPads in mainland China, achieving supply and demand balance for the Mini and the iMac in the March quarter, and the impact of currencies, particularly the yen. And we're also deferring more revenue on the iOS devices and Mac.

To summarize we are very pleased with what we're seeing from both carriers. We expect to continue to do well, but we've got some things that are offsetting it that we factored into the guidance.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: And Bill, this is Tim. I would add as a further update, we've been selling with China Mobile now for about a week and last week was the best week for activations we've ever had in China. So it's been an incredible start.

And at this moment we're just selling in 16 cities with China Mobile. As Peter alluded to this number is projected to be at over 300 cities by the end of the year. And so we've got quite the ramp in front of us and we're incredibly excited.

This comes after a new high water mark in China for us last quarter. We grew revenues including our retail stores at 31%.

And we had some very strong sales on iPad, iPads in greater China were up 64% year-over-year, Macs were up 28%. This compares to a tablet market in China that's growing at 21% per IDC, and a PC market that is contracting by 7%. And so in addition to the great iPhone news with China Mobile and how we are looking there, we really turned in a stellar quarter in greater China overall and we are very proud of it.

BILL SHOPE: Can you comment on your progress so far in getting down the cost curve for the iPhone and iPad? And would you say you are in line with the types of improvements you've seen in cycles prior to the iPhone 5?

TIM COOK: Well you can see that we've projected in the guidance gross margins between 37% and 38%. And that's despite going from a holiday quarter to a non-holiday quarter, which we lose quite a bit of leverage from in doing that. And so one of the primary things that's going on there is cost, so we're happy with how we are doing.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Bill. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross with Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Can you talk a bit more about opportunities in the mobile payment market? And maybe talk about what you're seeing with regard to use of the touch sensor for mobile payments in your iTunes Store? And then how you sort of think about this as an opportunity, whether over time it's revenue or margin?

TIM COOK: Let me sort of avoid the last question -- last part of the question. In general we are seeing that people love being able to buy content, whether it's music or movies or books from their iPhone using Touch ID. It's incredibly simple and easy and elegant and it's clear that there's a lot of opportunity there.

The mobile payments area in general is one that we've been intrigued with and that was one of the thoughts behind Touch ID. But we're not limiting ourselves just to that.

So I don't have anything specific to announce today. But you can tell by looking at the demographics of our customers and the amount of commerce that goes through iOS devices versus the competition that it's a big opportunity on the platform.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Shannon. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I have one for Tim and then a follow-up please.

Tim, I wanted to just step back and talk a little bit about iPhone market share. The market data isn't out for Q1, but if we look at your prior four quarters, fiscal 2013 Apple grew its iPhone units about 20%, the market grew in the 40%s. I think this quarter, even with a new product and having China front loaded, Apple's -- the iPhone is going to grow at a fraction of ultimately what the market is likely to grow at.

And I know your belief and philosophy historically has been that you want to make the best product and that's the most important thing. But in Macs you've actually succeeded in making the best product and being able to gain share. You've cited again how you've gained share in 30 out of the last 31 quarters in Mac. But in iPhone that is not happening.

And so my question, is what is different about the smartphone market that is not allowing you to hold or gain unit share despite apparently having the best product? And do you propose to do anything differently going forward, because I think it's great to have an aspiration to make the best products but I think that's in the spirit of ultimately growing at least in line or faster than the market, and that doesn't appear to be happening.

TIM COOK: Well Toni as I've said before, our objective has always been to make the best, not the most. And we feel we are doing that.

If you look at what we did this year we announced two iPhones for the first time rather than one. And looking at last quarter, if you looked at our sell throughs, so not sell in, but the sell through of what I'll just call our entry phone, or mid-phone and our top phone, or the 5S, all of those grew year-over-year versus the phones that were in those categories previously.

If you look at the emerging markets which is one of the things that I believe is key that we have to grow in these areas and grow at reasonable amount, in Latin America we grew at 76% year-over-year. In the Middle East and Africa we grew at 65%. In Central and Eastern Europe we grew at 115%.

In China we grew at 20%. However, as you know, we just added China Mobile, the largest carrier there in this quarter and did not have a channel load in China Mobile last quarter. And so we just started selling those in January.

Also in Japan as we've added DoCoMo iPhone units were up 40%. Now when you translate that performance into revenue in Japan we have the issue with the yen that Peter spoke about earlier. And so the revenue growth looks much less than that because of the strength of the dollar there.

In North America we did not do as well and this weighed our results. Our North American business contracted somewhat year-over-year. And if you look at the reason for this, one was that as we entered the quarter and forecasted our iPhone sales where we achieved what we thought we actually sold more iPhone 5S's than we projected. So the mix was stronger to the 5S and it took us some amount of time in order to build the mix that customers were demanding. And as a result we lost some sort of units for part of the quarter in North America, and relative to the world it took us the bulk of the quarter, almost all of the quarter to get into -- the iPhone 5S into proper supply.

The other thing that happened in North America specifically was that some carriers changed their upgrade policies. And this effected last quarter and will have some effect on the current quarter. This restricted customers who were used to upgrading earlier than the 24 months that they're allowed and sort of stretched the time out to be a hard and fast 24 months. And so that's a major factor playing into the North American results.

So as I back up and sort of zoom out on this and look at it, one of the most important things for us in the iPhone business was to do really well in emerging markets and we had the best quarter ever from that respect. Another was to grow in China because I think you can't be in the business that we're in and not have a reasonable China business. And you can see how we did last quarter and we've now followed that up with a deal with China Mobile. So I feel great about that.

I think part of what's happening in North America is a short-term effect because of these upgrade policy changes. This affects a period of time, three months to six months I would think. And then it washes through.

So as I look at it, I feel very good about where we are. And I would guess that the market numbers, that some of the stuff you been seeing will actually be decreased as the revisions come out, given what you're hearing what everyone is saying.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. I'd like to follow that up, just on your comments on China. You've characterized the agreement with China Mobile as huge.

Could you tell me what would define success for you in China Mobile one year and three years out? What ultimately should we be looking at to measure and ultimately determine whether this was huge?

TIM COOK: Well, I'm not going to give you a forecast for it. I think if you just backup and look at it from a commonsense point of view China Mobile has more subscribers that anyone in the world. They had 0.75 billion. And so I do see it as a watershed moment for Apple and have a very strong belief in the abilities of the two companies to do great things together.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Tony. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. My question is for Tim. Tim, the midpoint of your guidance obviously implies a decline in revenue in the quarter coming up. And you haven't done that forever. You came pretty close a couple quarters ago, but you had some growth.

My question is, are you still a growth company? And should we expect the growth rate to accelerate as we go throughout the year, and why if that's the case?

TIM COOK: I think it's important to listen to what Peter said about the guidance and about the compare year-over-year. And the point that he made that the underlying sell through that we're very confident of growth year-over-year. And that is the way we look at it. I know some people just look at the numbers on a piece of paper.

But the way I look at the business is, our business from a sell through point of view less iPod, because I think all of us have known for some time that iPod is a declining business. And when you do that, the numbers from last quarter and the deferral which we've just increased, as Peter went through, when you look at that and look at the numbers from last quarter it comes up to a double-digit growth. And we're proud of that. I think that's a pretty good result.

We will see how we do in the March quarter. But I do think it's important in the March quarter to take into consideration sell through versus just a view of sell in.

BEN REITZES: All right. And do you -- I guess there's been a lot of things in the media about your potential to buy back more stock and your shares are around 500 tonight, I was wondering if you thought this was a good level and whether it was time to accelerate the buyback from current levels. You obviously generated a ton of cash in the quarter and what your latest thoughts are there.

TIM COOK: Well we've been buying back stock. As you know last year we increased the program overall our cash return, doubling it to $100 billion and $60 billion of that is buyback. And we've been progressing on that. Luca can give you the precise numbers of it. So we are a big believer in buying back the stock, and that doesn't change today whether the stock goes up or down.

BEN REITZES: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Ben. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From UBS, Steve Milunovich.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, could you talk a bit more about the gross margin, you did provide an upside surprise to your guidance in the quarter. What were the factors? And then looking forward Peter, what are some of the gives and takes for the March quarter?

LUCA MAESTRI: Steve let me answer that one. Let me start with the quarter. So we were about the guidance range. It was primarily for two factors.

We had favorable product mix and we had favorable commodity pricing. And so those were the two things that actually helped us come in above the guidance range.

For the quarter, for Q2 we are guiding 37% to 38% compared to 37.9% in the December quarter. We're going to have some loos of leverage as you can imagine because of the usual seasonal decline in revenue. But we expect that loss of leverage to be largely offset by cost improvements and also by less deferred revenue than were going to have in Q2.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay thanks. And then regarding the overall demand, one thing you did mention Tim is maturity of the particularly high-end smartphone market. I know in our surveys we are finding relative to a year ago a lot of higher percentage of Apple buyers already have an Apple handset.

So I'm curious if you think Western world can show decent unit growth over the next year or two? And I was also wondering, the 5C generally is viewed as having, turned out to be pretty light in the mix. What are you going to do with that product going forward?

TIM COOK: I will sidestep the last question of course because it is about future products. But to your question about the 5S in particular, if I look at the sell through year-over-year there was growth in that portion of our line despite adding a new phone -- an entirely new phone underneath it. And so I think that's a good sign and that's despite it being in short supply for the bulk or virtually all of the quarter.

And so I do believe that that category of product can grow in those markets if you are thinking about US and Western Europe for example and Japan. In Japan we grew 40% last quarter. That's fairly good.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Steve. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Brian Marshall with ISI Group.

BRIAN MARSHALL, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Obviously the iPhone business grew about 7% year-over-year, we're at $200 million in annual unit sales now, and that is with two new devices being launched in the quarter. Can you help us -- help us think about how you guys view the iPhone new user growth out there in the marketplace versus simply a solid replacement cycle that the company has in its install base?

TIM COOK: We saw -- Brian it's Tim. We saw a significant new to iPhone number. It's not numbers that we throw out, but we particularly saw that on the 5C which is what we wanted to see.

So is clearly not just upgraders. As a matter of fact the upgraders, particularly North America would've been less than we thought because of the changes in the upgrade policy that I talked about earlier.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Okay. Thanks.

And then with respect to innovation at the company, and obviously iPhone came out in 2007, iPad came out in 2010. 2013 came around, we got some new products obviously, but nothing really from a new product category. Care to comment on sort of the innovation cycle of the company and the cadence there? Thank you.

TIM COOK: It's never been stronger Brian. I'm very confident with the work that's going on and I think our customers are going to love what we're going to do.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Thanks Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Brian. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I had a question and a follow-up. Tim, for you, the first one to follow-up from Brian's question, you are growing iPhones about 7%, I think the market is going to end up looking up to be 14%.

Are you happy with the pricing umbrella that you currently have? When you originally brought out iPhones in subsequent periods you talked about wanting to push some pricing umbrellas, but are you happy with the pricing umbrellas that you have? In particular, as you think about the 5C I think most of the industry views have panned the product as not being enough features for that price point. But if you could just talk about the positioning of your broader product portfolio and of iPhones, are you happy where you are?

TIM COOK: I think last quarter we did a tremendous job, particularly given the mix was something very differently than we thought. It was the first time we had ever run that particular play before, and the demand percentage turned out to be different than we thought. We obviously always look at our results and conclude what to change moving forward and if we decide it's in our best interest to make a change, then we will make one. Obviously I'm not going to predict price changes on the earnings call.

KEITH BACHMAN: Sorry, not price changes but at least product positioning. Are you willing to go -- expand the product portfolio into new categories within the phone family?

TIM COOK: We are willing to make any product that's a great product. Where our line in the sand is is making something that's not fantastic.

KEITH BACHMAN: Well than my follow-up for you Peter is, you mentioned four factors that influenced guidance. In particular, you talked about inventory. I think most investors would conclude then December wasn't as good as it looked if you had increases in channel inventory.

So I was hoping you could peel off a little bit and talk about the foreign exchange impact and the higher deferrals? Is there way to quantify that impact on the guidance in March in particular?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As I had said to one of the earlier questions, Keith, the four factors we expect to be over $2 billion. And the inventory is the largest. And then the other three are less than the inventory and not too terribly far apart.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Keith. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Pacific Crest Securities, we will go to Andy Hargreaves.

ANDY HARGREAVES, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Just a quick follow-up to, Tim, the comments about demand mix being significantly different or different than what you thought in the quarter. Do you have any thoughts on why it was so much different than what you expected it to be?

TIM COOK: I think the 5S, people are really intrigued with Touch ID. It's a major feature that has excited people. And I think that, associated with the other things that are unique to the 5S, got the 5S to have a significant amount more attention and a higher mix of sales.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay, and then just on the comments on R&D that working on things that aren't visible to us, you guys have done a lot of things in recent years sort of in support of the existing products. Are we to read those comments that you're working on things that are material new revenue drivers, new potential legs of the stool or are these more services that would support the existing customer base?

TIM COOK: They are meant to be, what Luca is saying is that we are working on things that are things that you see that we are shipping today, but we're working on things that are not, that you can't see today.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Andy. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Tim I had a question. What is your user data kind of telling you right now in terms of the replacement cycle? Are you starting to see a lot of heritage Apple users now refresh their iPhone every three years plus or their iPad every two years plus versus previous? Are you seeing any major changes there?

TIM COOK: We don't have great data yet from last quarter. And so I don't know the answer to your question.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. And then the follow-up is around this OpEx being flat relative to the revenue guide. Is there something around the vertical in terms of maybe increasing focusing on the enterprise vertical that you see an opportunity to take advantage of, so maybe you're hiring more folks to service that industry?

TIM COOK: It's clear that the enterprise area has huge potential and we are doing well from a percentage of companies that are using iPhone and iPad. It's up to unbelievable numbers. The iPhone is used in 97% of the Fortune 500 and 91% of the Global 500 and iPad is used in 98% of the Fortune 500 and 93% of the Global 500.

We have a number of accounts, some which Peter reviewed in the opening remarks, that have tens of thousands of iOS devices working. And also, as I think was mentioned earlier, 90% of tablet activations in corporations are iPads. And 95% of total app activations were on iOS. I think that is an incredible measure of ultimately how sticky the products are because you can get so much productivity out of an iPad and iPhone.

So I think the road in enterprise is a longer one. The arc is longer than in consumer which can immediately go out and buy things et cetera. But I think we've done a lot of the groundwork, as you can tell from these numbers that I've given you. And I would expect that it would have more and more payback in the future.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Mark. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Gene Munster with Piper Jaffrey.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Just a follow-up to some of the previous questions. Tim, I have got to ask it, in the previous quarters you've talked about specifically product categories multiple, and that's different than variations of existing products and that would be by the end of 2014. I just want to be clear, is that still on track and consistent with some of the expenses that we talked about earlier in the call? Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes. Absolutely. No change.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay and then second, and this gets back to some of the other themes on the call here too, but you're obviously going to have a big year in terms of new product categories, and maybe even thinking beyond 2014 and the new products come out and they kind of ramp in 2015. How do you think about kind of the trajectory of the platform, or what would you say to I guess investors that say this is just a product cycle story?

TIM COOK: Well I wouldn't answer your question. But I would just say innovation is deeply embedded in everybody here. There's still so much of the world that is full of very complex products et cetera.

There's never a -- we don't have -- we have zero issue coming up with things we want to do that we think we can disrupt in a major way. The challenge is always to focus and to the very few that deserves all of our energy. And we've always done that, and we're continuing to do that.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Gene. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes Store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 9268358.

These replays will be available by approximately 5 PM Pacific time today and members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc. | cmbile : China Mobile Communications Corp
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i7902202 : Cellular Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140129ea1r003s5
  


 HD
 Q4  2013 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,202 words
   PD
28 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated fourth-quarter fiscal year 2013 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE INC: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking first today are Apple's CEO, Tim Cook, and CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and they will be joined by Vice President and Corporate Controller Luca Maestri for the Q&A session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2012; the Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2013; and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates. I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim Cook for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you very much for joining us. We're eager to share with you the results of the final quarter of Apple's fiscal 2013. We had a strong finish to an amazing year and Peter will provide details about the September quarter shortly.

But first, I'm happy to tell you that Apple's business is stronger than ever. We are in the unique position of having world-class hardware, software, and service skills under one roof, which enables us to provide an unparalleled user experience to hundreds of millions of customers. And working with our vibrant developer community, we've built a large and thriving ecosystem. We are winning with our products in all the ways that are most important to us -- in customer satisfaction, in product usage, and in customer loyalty. Our relentless focus on providing innovation that enhances our customers' lives is evident in the extraordinary list of products that we have launched in just the last couple of months -- from the colorful iPhone 5c and forward-thinking iPhone 5s; to the powerful new iMac, MacBook Pro, and Mac Pro; to the stunning iPad Mini with Retina display; and the dramatically thinner, lighter, and more powerful iPad Air.

Thanks to a deep collaboration between our design and engineering teams, we also launched iOS 7, with a stunning new redesign, powerful new features, and a great new service called iTunes Radio. We introduced OS X Mavericks, bringing new core technologies for breakthrough power efficiency and performance to our Mac, and we introduced next-generation iLife and iWork apps for iOS and OS X, and we are making all of this incredible software free because we want our customers to have access to the greatest new features. All of these are products that only Apple could have delivered and most companies would be proud to just have one of them.

Looking back, we're very pleased with Apple's many accomplishments during fiscal 2013. Our customers had an incredible response to our product line-up, buying 150 million iPhones, 71 million iPads, and 16 million Macs across the fiscal year. We expanded the breadth and depth of our ecosystem and we generated over $16 billion in revenue from iTunes software and services. We also welcomed almost 400 million visitors to our retail stores and opened or remodeled 49 new stores, and for the second year in a row, we produced over $50 million in revenue per store.

We generated record total Company revenue of $171 billion, earnings of $37 billion, and operating cash flow of $54 billion. We paid over $8 billion in capital expenditures to bolster our supply chain, expand our infrastructure, and increase our retail footprint. We also completed 15 strategic acquisitions -- that's an average of 1 acquisition every 3 to 4 weeks. We more than doubled the size of our capital return program to $100 billion, including the largest share repurchase authorization in history, and we've become one of the largest dividend payers in the world. In fact, we've returned over $36 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in the last five quarters alone.

We remain firmly committed to our objective of delivering attractive returns to shareholders through both our business performance and a return of capital. We review our capital program regularly and our Board is engaged in the discussion of capital allocation on an ongoing basis. We have solicited feedback on our capital return program from shareholders in the past. We've greatly appreciated their suggestions and we will actively seek their input again this year. As we have in the past, the Board and the Management team will consider a wide range of issues and be thoughtful and deliberate and we will announce any changes to our current program in the first part of the new calendar year. We are off to great start in fiscal year 2014. We continue to be very confident in Apple's future and we see significant opportunities ahead of us in both current product categories and new ones.

We are participating in large and growing markets. Today, smartphone penetration of the global handset market is only a little over 50%. The smartphone category is expected to grow significantly in the next few years from about 1 billion units per year this year to over 1.7 billion in 2017. And the tablet market is growing at an even faster rate, from about 225 million units this year to over 400 million in 2017. We are continuing to invest in R&D and distribution; we are expanding our geographic coverage; and we are building upon a phenomenal but still very young retail store presence.

We are also proud to be a force for good in the world beyond our products. Whether it is improving working conditions or the environment, standing up for human rights, helping eliminate AIDS, or reinventing education, Apple is making substantial contributions to society. I would like to thank all of our customers and our long-term shareholders for their loyalty, and I'd also like to thank Apple's many talented employees who have worked tirelessly to bring us this far and who are passionately focused on making great products that enrich people's lives. I'd now turn the call over to Peter to discuss the details of the most recent quarter. Peter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE INC: Thank you, Tim. We are pleased to report the results of the final quarter of Apple's fiscal year 2013, with record fourth-quarter iPhone sales driving our highest September quarter revenue ever. Revenue for the quarter was $37.5 billion, up $1.5 billion or 4% from the year-ago quarter and slightly above the high end of our guidance range. Gross margin was 37% at the high end of our guidance range, and operating margin was $10 billion, representing 26.8% of revenue. Net income was $7.5 billion, translating to diluted earnings per share of $8.26.

As for the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with iPhone. We sold 33.8 million iPhones compared to 26.9 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 6.9 million, or 26%, and a new September quarter record. IPhone sales were ahead of our expectations and grew strongly year-over-year in each of our geographic segments. We were particularly pleased with growth in a number of developing markets, with unit sales up sharply year-over-year in Latin America, the Middle East, Russia, and India. We were also very happy to add NTT Docomo to our carrier line-up in Japan, a country where demand for iPhone has been especially strong.

iPhone sales remained very robust in the US, with comScore estimating that Apple was the leading smartphone manufacturer, with a 40.7% smartphone subscriber share for the 3 months ending in August. And among North American customers polled by ChangeWave late last month who plan to purchase a smartphone within 90 days, 63% indicated they plan to purchase an iPhone. We exited the quarter with about 14.3 million total iPhones in channel inventory, which represented a sequential increase of 3.3 million from the June quarter, and placed us at the low end of our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPhone channel inventory on a look-forward basis.

Customers are loving their iPhones. Based on the most recently published research, ChangeWave measured a 96% customer satisfaction rate among iPhone users and Kantar measured a 92% customer loyalty rate, significantly higher than the competition. And we believe that a great customer experience translates to much higher usage. In fact, Experian reported that iPhone users spend an average of 53% more time each day on their phones then Android phone users.

iPhone continues to be a key productivity tool for organizations around the world, aided by apps from the App Store, as well as those custom built for internal use. In fact, nearly 35,000 companies representing millions of employees worldwide are building custom apps that address specific workflow improvements for their iPhone and iPad users. In the US, over 14,000 employees of Johnson Controls are using iPhones for work. The company has created in-house apps that have enhanced field technician service delivery and customer communications. And China's AVIC International, a unit of Aviation Industry Corporation of China, has equipped 27,000 employees with iPhones to access internally-developed apps for office administrative documentations, approval processes, and key business intelligence systems.

Turning to iPad, we sold 14.1 million iPads during the quarter compared to 14 million in the year-ago quarter. iPad sales exceeded our expectations in the September quarter as we approached our new product introductions. We experienced robust year-over-year sales growth in Japan, Russia, the Middle East, and we were pleased with strong back-to-school demand for iPad in the US and Canada. iPad sell-through was roughly equal to sell-in, so we exited the quarter with about 4.1 million units of iPad channel inventory, within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks on a look-back basis. Interest in iPad remains incredibly strong. In an August survey by ChangeWave of consumers who intend to purchase tablets within 90 days, 55% indicated they plan to purchase iPads, more than 4 times the rate of the next most popular alternative. And of those who already own iPads, the survey measured a 99% customer satisfaction rate.

The momentum of iOS devices in enterprise also remains incredibly strong. In its latest Mobility Index Report, Good Technology indicated that the iOS platform accounted for 95% of enterprise mobile app activations and 72% of all mobile device activations in the September quarter, while iPad accounted for 90% of total tablet activations. Companies around the world are using iPads with custom apps to reinvent their legacy business processes, improving efficiencies across organizations and job functions. For example, direct store delivery reps at Dr Pepper Snapple Group uses iPads to facilitate communication and streamline the product delivery process. East Japan Railway personnel use iPad minis to stay informed about schedule changes and access conductor manual. And Swedish manufacturer SKF uses a custom iPad app to calculate the life of their ball bearing products, saving 10 to 15 minutes per calculation for every engineer several times per day.

Schools around the world continue to adopt iPad to transform teaching and learning in the classroom. In the UK, the number of iPads sold to K-12 schools has more than doubled year-over-year and in Latin America over 70,000 iPads are being used by Sistema Uno students across 800 schools to improve their learning experience. Here in the US, school districts continue to roll out large iPad initiatives to students. The Coachella Valley School District in California is currently distributing over 19,000 iPads to its entire student body. And in South Carolina, every one of the Horry County school district's 10,000 middle school students will receive an iPad this year. These broad deployments are in part driven by the great educational content available on iPad and we are pleased to report that iBooks Textbooks are now available across the US, UK, and Australian national high school curricula.

Last week, we were thrilled to introduce new iPads featuring the A7 Chip, with 64-bit desktop-class architecture, ultra-fast wireless, and expanded LTE connectivity. The new iPad Air features a beautiful Retina display in an elegant unibody design that is 20% thinner and 28% lighter than the fourth-generation iPad. And the iPad Mini with Retina display packs all the pixels of the iPad Air into its stunning 7.9-inch displays and runs over 475,000 iPad apps available from the App Store.

Turning to Mac, sales of 4.6 million Macs were above our expectations, which is a 7% decline from the year-ago quarter. IDC estimates the global personal computer market contracted by 10% during the September quarter, indicating that Macs continue to gain share, just as they have for 29 of the last 30 quarters. We were especially pleased with strong year-over-year growth in sales of MacBook Air, which we updated in June. And in late September, we updated iMac with fourth-generation Intel Quad Core processors, new graphics, next-generation Wi-Fi, and faster PCIe flash storage options. Last week, we launched new versions of MacBook Pro with Retina display, featuring fourth-generation Intel Core processors, faster graphics, long-rate battery life, and a more affordable price.

Also last week, we launched Mavericks, the 10th major release of OS X, with more than 200 new features. Mavericks brings iBooks and Maps to the Mac, includes the new version of Safari, enhances multi-display support, introduces Finder tabs and tags, and delivers core technologies for breakthrough power efficiency and performance, and is now free. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory that was just below our 4 to 5-week target range.

We continue to be very pleased with the growth of iTunes software and services and the strength of the Apple ecosystem. Our iTunes stores generated record billings of $4.4 billion in the September quarter, thanks to continued strong growth in sales of apps. The quarter's iTunes billings translated to quarterly iTunes revenue of $2.4 billion, up 15% from the year-ago quarter. The strong iTunes sales combined with other software and service revenue, resulted in total quarterly revenue of $4.3 billion from iTunes software and services, an increase of 22% year-over-year. Cumulative app downloads have reached 60 billion and our app developers have now earned $13 billion from sales through the App Store, half of which they've earned in the last year.

We had a tremendously successful launch of iOS 7 last month, with hundreds of millions of downloads in the first few days alone, making it the fastest software upgrade ever. Last week, we reported that nearly two-thirds of iOS devices were already running iOS 7. That's significantly higher than the percentage of users running the latest versions of other mobile operating systems. This rapid transition to the latest version of iOS not only means that more customers are having the most advanced experience possible, but it also enables developers to offer their latest app innovations to hundreds of millions of users in a single software release. iOS software has something now for everyone, with its great new design in features such as Control Center, AirDrop, and iTunes Radio. In fact, the number of unique the listeners who have tried iTunes Radio is now 20 million and growing.

iOS 7 also include significant features that make iPhones and iPads more secure and easier to manage in corporate environments, offering new ways to configure and deploy devices at scale. New device management capabilities include controlled sharing of documents and attachments, App Store license management, wireless managed app set up, and streamlined mobile device management enrollment. And in terms of security, iOS 7 offers enterprise single sign-on, default third-party app data protection, and per app VPN to automatically connect storage corporate apps to the network without the need for users to change complicated settings.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. The revenue for the quarter was $4.5 billion, up 6% from the year-ago quarter. The stores produced very strong iPhone sales, with unit growth of 36% per store per week compared to the September quarter last year. We completed the remodels of 2 stores and opened 8 new stores during the quarter, ending with a total of 416 stores, including 162 outside the United States. We are projecting a total of approximately 30 new store openings in fiscal year 2014, about two-thirds of which will be outside the US. We also plan to remodel about 20 stores over the course of fiscal year 2014. With an average of 411 stores open in the September quarter, average revenue per store was $10.9 million compared to $11.2 million in the year-ago quarter. Retail segment income was $709 million. We hosted 99 million visitors to stores during the quarter which translates to 18,500 visitors per store per week.

Operating expenses were $3.8 billion and included $467 million of stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $113 million and the tax rate for the quarter was 25.9%. And turning to our cash, we ended the quarter with $146.8 billion in cash plus short-term and long-term marketable securities, a sequential increase of $100 million from the June quarter. Our domestic cash was $35.5 billion at the end of the September quarter, a sequential decline of $5.2 billion, largely attributable to our share repurchase activity. $111.3 billion, or 76% of our total cash, was offshore at the end of the September quarter, and cash flow from operations was $9.9 billion.

We paid $2.8 billion in dividends in the quarter and we executed an additional $5 billion in repurchases of 10.4 million shares of Apple stock during the quarter. This brings us to a cumulative total of $36 billion in payments for dividends and share repurchases over the last five quarters, of which share buybacks were $23 billion. This has resulted in cumulative retirement of almost 47 million shares and represents 5% of the total shares outstanding prior to the launch of our repurchase program. More than 44 million of these shares have been retired in the past two quarters alone.

Finally, given that our capital return program must be funded from domestic cash, and as a result of our payments to-date, the cash that we can invest domestically and return to shareholders has stopped accumulating. In fact, we have returned to shareholders or invested essentially all of the increase in available net cash generated since the beginning of our capital return program in 2012. Our Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $3.05 per common share payable on November 14, 2013 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 11, 2013.

Now as we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to in the beginning of the call. First, I want to explain a bit about revenue deferrals. We believe that our software and services play a tremendous role in delivering the overall experience that our customers have come to know and love. Over the last few years, we have added significantly to the offerings that we provide our customers at no incremental charge from operating system upgrade rights to non-software services, such as Siri and iCloud.

The iLife and iWork apps have become as essential to the user experience as mail, messages, and calendar. So we are now making iPhoto, iMovie, Pages, Numbers, and Keynotes available as free downloads to customers who purchase new iOS devices, and we are also making Mavericks and future OS X upgrades, as well as iLife and iWork, free to our Mac customers. As a result of these additional rights and features, we are deferring a greater portion of the sale of each iOS device and Mac sold. We anticipate that the additional deferral per device sold, coupled with our sequentially greater unit volume expectations in the December quarter, will result in about a $900 million sequential increase in the net amount of revenue deferred for software upgrade rights and non-software services.

In total, we expect revenue to be between $55 billion and $58 billion, compared to $54.5 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margins to be between 36.5% and 37.5%, reflecting approximately $105 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be between $4.4 billion and $4.5 billion, including about $585 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OI&E to be about $200 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.25%.

In closing, we're very pleased with the results of the final quarter of our fiscal year 2013. We enter fiscal year 2014 with an incredible line-up of products, including and our amazing new iPhones and iPads. We remain committed to delivering great innovative products and services that delight our customers and enhance their lives and we are very confident in our new product pipelines.

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter.

(Caller Instructions)

Operator, may we have the first question please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Peter, I'm a little surprised your December quarter gross margin guidance isn't even better given the increased total iPhone mix and also iPhone 5s within the iPhone line. I imagine there's a lot of offsetting factors given the products that were launched last week. So I just wonder if you can walk through some of the gross margin headwinds you see in the December quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We expect, as I said, in my prepared remarks, our gross margins to be between 36.5% and 37.5%. So essentially in line with the September quarter. We are pleased to be guiding gross margin about flat sequentially, given all the new products that we have launched in the last few weeks. During the quarter, we expect gross margin to benefit from the leverage on the substantial sequential increase in revenue.

Offsetting these benefits, we see a few factors, including the higher deferred revenue relating to the software that I talked about in my prepared remarks. And as I said, we expect the sequential increase in our deferral, which is not only revenue, but affects margin as well, to be $900 million. Second, a richer mix of new iPads with higher cost structures and lower pricing. Third, FX headwinds, primarily from the yen. And fourth, the new lower-priced MacBook Pro and iMac, which have higher cost structures in their predecessors.

So those are four things that I would point out, Katy.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay, very helpful. Tim, the press and even some of your competitors are quite complimentary of the innovation in iPhone 5s, but it seems like investors are looking -- or glancing over the 64-bit ARM processor, the fingerprint sensor, the M7 processor -- and part of this is that they are not exactly sure what those technologies enable -- i.e. why do you need a 64-bit ARM processor in a phone. So I'm just hoping you could enlighten us a little bit on that question?

TIM COOK: Everything that you mentioned, Katy, is the front end of a long road map. And we have the first 64-bit smartphone, as you mentioned, and this is our first use of the fingerprint sensor. And if you've used it so far, you know that it is pretty profound to use it from a security point-of-view and use it also to purchase apps or music or movies, et cetera.

And, so both these -- the most important person here obviously is what our customers think and these new innovations on the 5s and the 5c combined led us to have our best iPhone launch ever, with selling about 9 million units through the weekend. So we are off to great start.

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Looking at the iPhone business, as well. For the 5c, there was some was some anticipation that the price point would be lower and there was obviously some debate around that when you launched it. Now that you've had the device out there for a while -- a few weeks -- what type of response are you seeing from the more cost-sensitive regions? And can you remind us of some of the things you are doing to make the products increasingly affordable for the emerging regions, in particular?

TIM COOK: Bill, it's Tim. If you look what we have done with our iPhone line, we are selling the iPhone 4s as our entry offer; we are selling the iPhone 5c as a mid-tier offer; and then of course the iPhone 5s. And our goal is to overall have growth for total iPhone, but also within that, we want to have each of those categories grow as compared to what we were doing previously. If you look at the total offers that we are making in the low-end space and mid-tier and high-end, the sum of all the price points we offer there, we would like to grow in each one of those, and we are really pleased that we did that.

That is how we partly measure success. Of course, the most important thing for us is to make a great product. But we do need growth, and we are happy that we've seen that.

I realize that some people were reading rumors about that the entry phone would be the 5c but that was never our intent, obviously. Our entry iPhone is the iPhone 4s. And as you know from comments that I've made previously, we were selling the iPhone 4 in very good volumes and as we begin to experiment in different regions at somewhat lower price points, we saw a fair amount of price elasticity, and so we are hoping and thinking that, that will continue with the 4s.

BILL SHOPE: Okay and then related to that somewhat, looking at the iPhone ASPs overall, last quarter, you reminded us that the iPhone ASP and mix tends to be at its highest levels in the first few months of a product cycle and then tends to trend downward throughout the product cycle. Do you think we should assume similar patterns hold for this cycle or are there some unique factors we should consider, particularly given the change in the product line-up?

TIM COOK: All things being equal, what we would normally see on our products is that you have a large number of people that are early-adopter related that come into the market right after we announce and buy our very best product. Other things being equal, that's what we would expect to see.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Tim, you commented in your initial remarks about new product categories -- I think this was also something you were explicit about in your April quarterly conference call -- where you said that consumers and investors should expect new products, including new product categories, in the second half of this year and first half of 2014. So, can you reiterate that we should have that expectation?

And when you talk about new product categories, I presume that, since you made the statement in April, there have been none? I just want to make sure I understand the semantics of what you refer to as a new category?

TIM COOK: Toni, I didn't say in April that you would see them in this year and the first half of next year. So just to be clear on that. But what I have said that you would see some exciting new products from us in the fall of this year and across 2014. I obviously stand by that and you've seen a lot of things over the last couple of months.

In terms of new product categories, specifically, if you look at the skills that Apple has from hardware, software, and services, and an incredible app ecosystem, these set of things are very unique. I think no one has a set of skills like this. We obviously believe that we can use our skills in building other great products that are in categories that represent areas where we do not participate today. We are pretty confident about that.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And as a follow-up, I wanted to revisit the question of your pricing strategy. Last quarter, you spoke very ebulliently about elasticity that you experienced on the iPhone 4 and you had lowered the price in many emerging markets to about $400. And yet when the new products come out, the 4s was actually at notably higher price than the 4 had been in the previous quarter and the 5c was obviously in line with what we had seen before with 4s and the 5s was in line with 5.

So if anything, one of the common themes that came out of the last earnings call was the desire to embrace the elasticity of the iPhone, but as best as I can tell, price points across the board seem to be a little bit higher than they were 3 months ago despite this significant success you had there.

So, I'm wondering how we should think about what lessons you learned from the 4 pricing changes. Why you didn't choose to keep the 4 given that it was an extraordinarily strong seller, as best we could tell last quarter? And how you expect to try and continue to address the lower-price segments of the smartphone market?

TIM COOK: Toni, the $400 number, just to clarify, is your number, not mine. What we did with our line-up this time was -- the 4s is replacing the 4. And so if you look at the US as an example, the 4S is now free, the 4 was previously free.

When you translate that out of the US, it depends on the market, as to what specifically has happened. As you know, currency changes and the strength of the dollar doesn't play in our favor in some geos from that perspective. But generally, we see the 4s as our entry iPhone offer that gives somebody the ability to access the entire ecosystem with a fantastic product, and we clearly understand that there is elasticity in that market and we will move accordingly.

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: First question is on China. Tim, congrats on being the only Company in my sector that grew in China this quarter. I'd have to check that, but got be one of them.

You returned to growth, I believe, at 6%, if my math is right. What happened and do you see that growth rate accelerating? We are hoping you have new partnerships there and how can you expand distribution?

TIM COOK: Yes, Ben, we had a pretty good quarter in China. We obviously want to do better. But if you look at the quarter, we did grow by 6%. Underneath that, iPhone units were at 25% year-over-year despite significant constraints on iPhone 5s that affected the whole (technical difficulty).

However, we were able to launch in our first round this time in China, and that was a big change in the results of our close relationship with the carriers in China and the government. And so we feel very good about that. We were able to do that on the iPad, as well, as we announced last week.

For the full year, the greater China region generated over $27 billion [in sales for us], up 14% year-over-year. So we have a reasonable-sized business there. In the year-ago quarter, iPad launched. It launched late in China. And so that pressured the 6% down some; otherwise it would've been even a stronger quarter, given the strength of iPhone.

We are continuing to invest in stores. We opened one additional store in greater China in the last few weeks.

We are investing in indirect distribution. Our point-of-sales are up by about 50% year-over-year on the iPhone.

And we are continuing to go out to more cities. Initially, we were very focused on just the large cities. We are working on both coverage, on launching earlier, and execution, and continuing to build on our retail practice there.

BEN REITZES: Okay. And nothing to announce on [more], but my second question is for Peter. There is some confusion around the revenue deferral, and I was just hoping you could clarify for it for gross margins.

The $900 million is about 160 basis points, if I have that right, on gross margins. How much of that should we say is pressuring gross margin down in your guidance? Do we take about -- would your gross margin guidance have been about half the difference there higher, if it weren't for this revenue deferral? And when do we recoup that margin? How many quarters does it take to recoup and how will that flow back through the model?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Ben. We have been deferring revenues for the sale of each iOS device and Mac, given that we have been providing updates to software. Given the announcements that we made last week and that I went through in my prepared remarks, we have actually increased those deferrals.

iPhone and iPad, we are deferring between $15 and $25; that's up by as much as $5 per device. And Mac (technical difficulty) some $20 to $40, so up an additional $20.

On a sequential basis, given the increased deferral rates that we have, as a result of increasing the software that we are providing to customers for free, coupled with our sequential unit increases, we will defer, we think, about $900 million more in revenue in the December quarter than we deferred in the September quarter. So you can calculate the impact to gross margin on that. We will also -- and that goes straight through to margin.

It's revenue and a dollar-for-dollar reduction in gross margin. We will then record that revenue that we've deferred for iOS devices across a 2-year period of time ratably and for Macs over a 4-year period of time.

So then, just to summarize, we have been deferring revenue on both iOS devices and Macs for a number of years, given the software that we have been giving away for free. We have increased those rates beginning in September for the iOS devices and in October for the Macs and it will come back in to those products over two and four years, as I said.

BEN REITZES: Great, thanks. That's a pretty good guide for gross margin, if you take that out -- if you are leaving that out. Thanks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, I would just add on to that -- thank you for saying that and I agree -- and I would also say that we are really happy to be guiding gross margins as flat, not only because of the deferrals, but in addition to all of the new products that we've introduced with higher cost structures and lower prices. And we will -- no hard and fast commitments, but we are going to work really hard to get down the cost curves as we have successfully in the past.

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Just to make sure this is crystal clear here on the gross margin, is it would have been about 38.5% would have been the mid-point of the guide, excluding the change to deferral. Is that correct, Peter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Probably in that range, Gene. I didn't do it precisely. But you can take the $900 million that we are deferring across the revenue ranges and do the math.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay, great. And then beyond the December quarter, in terms of structural elements around the iPhone gross margin, a couple of years ago with the 4s, we saw the launch and then we saw the margins ramp nicely after the launch. I know you're not giving guidance beyond the December quarter, but are there some structural things that have changed in the profitability of the iPhone that would be good to know as we think about our models in 2014?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't know that there is any structural differences, but I'll make a couple of comments. And I'm not giving guidance beyond the December quarter, but just a couple of things to think about. We are benefiting this quarter, as I talked about in answering Katy's question, from the benefits of leverage given the very big sequential increase in revenue. Leverage cuts both ways, so presumably, that would go against us in the March quarter.

However, we would expect to defer less for these software deferrals in the March quarter as well. And as I noted at the end of Ben's question, we will endeavor to work very hard to get down cost curves as we have in the past, no change.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay, and then for my follow-up question, in terms of the iPad and the Mini price change, I guess just broader thinking around the iPad. We've seen some fluctuations in the growth rate. How do you think about that segment in terms of growing at or above or below market growth rates around tablets?

And separately, is there any differences in terms of how often people are upgrading their iPads versus iPhones? It feels like they are upgrading them every three years versus a little bit over every two years for the iPhone? Is that accurate? So the size of the opportunity and then maybe just any nuances in upgrade behaviors between the iPhone and the iPad?

TIM COOK: Gene, it is Tim. We continue to view the tablet market as huge. We see it as a large opportunity for us. We are not solely focused on unit share, as I've said many times, we are focused on usage and customers set and loyalty and other things that are very important to us. We do believe that this has been -- or the announcement last week -- was our largest iPad announcement ever. And we are confident we are going to grow year-over-year.

And if you look back, we had a very strong quarter a year ago. We get off to a great start this weekend with iPad Air and then later in the month we'll begin shipping the new Mini. We did feel that we wanted to reduce the price of the iPad Mini and so we did that and now are coming in at $299, which is an incredible value to get access to the whole of the ecosystem and so forth. And, iPad Air is just absolutely incredible product -- the best iPad we've ever done.

And so both of these products are going to do really well. I think it's going to be in iPad Christmas. But we will see. We will report the numbers back to you in January, how we did. But we are pretty confident.

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Tim, can you talk a bit more your decision to offer the Mac OS for free and provide iWork and iLife for new device purchases? How are you thinking about it vis-a-vis some of the competition?

TIM COOK: Our primary reason for doing it, Shannon, was that we wanted it to become a part of what it meant to own a Mac and what it meant to own an iOS device. We saw iWork had become the best-selling productivity app on a mobile device. We wanted all of our customers to have access to our very latest software so they would have access to our best features.

So we decided to make the bold move of making it free and from -- I note some other folks charge $199 or so for each of these, actually, for the OS and the productivity apps, but we really wanted to make it a part of the experience. So we are making it free and we are going back all the way to Snow Leopard on the OS side and iWork is free for all new Macs.

I think it's a very strong offer. I think it is just another reason that everyone should buy Mac. And we think it was a great decision to do so, but most importantly we think it's great for our customers.

SHANNON CROSS: Great, and then just had a question on education, which somewhat ties into this, since iWork and iLife -- or some of these operating systems -- run through there. I'm curious what your thoughts are with regard to Chromebooks, Google Apps, any kind of foothold that we are seeing with Google taking share in education, because as we've seen some of the price points for the devices are pretty low. But clearly you guys are able to sell into education, as wello I'm curious as to how you view the competition and how you position your products vis-a-vis some of the things that are fairly low-priced?

TIM COOK: It's a good question. We had our best education quarter ever. We went over $1 billion in revenues for the first time ever. We were up strongly year-over-year, up 8%. iPad was up 22% and the Mac was up 8%. And as you know, the PC market was down 10% in the aggregate and likely down even more in education.

And so, we feel like we are doing great on both fronts, both in the iPad space and in the Mac space for people wanting to buy Mac. We do see Chromebooks in some places but the vast majority of people are buying PC/Mac or an iPad.

Our share of tablets in education is 94%, It's sort of unheard of. I've never seen a market share that high before. So we feel like we're doing really well here and feel great to be making a contribution to education.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Milunovich, UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Could you talk a little bit about the supply side? There's been some thought that the fingerprint technology has been a little bit hard to manufacture and you indicated that the Retina Mini would be out later in November. So curious if you are going to be able to meet the demand for the holidays with the Mini that you would like to and maybe some general supply comments and also comments on component costs?

TIM COOK: Sure, Steve, it's Tim. In terms of supply, iPhone 5s ended the quarter with a very significant backlog. We still have a significant backlog, however, our supply is building each week. And we are very confident of our ability to keep ramping and so we've rolled out 30 more countries, with the iPhone 5s and 5c as of last Friday, and we will roll out another 16 this week. So we are right on where we would like to be in terms of achieving 100 countries by the end of the calendar year.

In terms of the Retina or the iPad Mini with the Retina display, we will start shipping later in November. It's unclear whether we will have enough for the quarter or not. We know how many we will have, but you really don't know the demand until after you start shipping and so we will see how that goes. But I think we will do fairly well with iPad as I had mentioned before. We feel like it's going to be a really great holiday season.

In terms of component costs, both DRAM and [NAN] were up last quarter from the previous quarter. DRAM, we believe will continue to be up in this quarter. We think NAN will be flat and other commodities will fall sequentially.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. And then, Peter, about a year ago you indicated that the December quarter would benefit by about 200 basis points in gross margin due to a combination of mix shift toward phones and higher volume. Is that the sort of uplift you would expect from those factors this December quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Steve, I don't want to put a precise amount on it, but we -- I see us benefiting from a couple things in the quarter -- the leverage on the higher revenue by far being the biggest. As Tim mentioned, we expect to have a positive commodity environment, and selling iPhones is never a bad thing from a margin perspective.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: The first question here for Tim, just regarding the channel inventory levels of the 14.3 million for the iPhone, much higher than we've seen in quarters past. Is there some sort of message there in terms of you now having much broader coverage in terms of incremental coverage or is there a much bigger incremental upgrade cycle from your installed base or both?

TIM COOK: The way -- the number one thing to know on that channel inventory is that our range, as you know, for iPhone is four to six weeks. And we were at the low end of our range. That to me is the most -- that's the most important thing I'd look at, anyway, I should say -- you can choose to look at the thing that is more important to you.

In terms of it changing from where it's been in the past, the things that you should consider are that China was in wave one this year, so there was a lot more point-of-sales there. We added Docomo in Japan and so that's a large carrier to add.

And what probably were not in the opening comments was that of the 14 million, 1.8 million of those were iPhones that were in transit and therefore not available to sale in the channel. And we always count those in channel inventory because they are in our sales line. And so that's how I'd look at the iPhone inventory.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay, and then just a follow-up if I could. A year ago, you had a very ambitious multi-product ramp in terms of new products coming out. At the same time, you did have some impacts related to supply constraints.

Just to follow-up on Steve's question, do you feel that 12 months later, fast forward to the future now, that you are in a much better shape to avert or navigate some of these big supply constraints that inflicts some problems on you last year? Or could we see a similar situation as we move through the quarter?

TIM COOK: As I mentioned, on the iPhone 5s, I feel like we're doing really well on supply, but demand is very robust. And so we are in backlog right now. But I feel confident about us continuing to ramp and do quite well for the quarter.

On the iPad Mini, we will start shipping later this month and it's very difficult to forecast exactly when supply and demand will balance there. And we will also see about the iPad Air as we go out this week. I think we will have a really good weekend, but it may be that not everyone can find one that wants one.

Versus last year, one key difference is we announced one of our key Macs, the iMac, but we didn't begin shipping it until the end of December. And so we went for more than two months with minimal iMac sales. And, therefore, from a Mac point-of-view, year-over-year last year, we had our only down quarter -- down versus the market that is, in the last 30 quarters.

I don't envision that happening this year. I feel really good about the way that MacBook Pro have gotten off last week. They've gotten off to a huge start. I feel great about Mac growing year-over-year this quarter. I feel great about iPad growing year-over-year this quarter, as well. And you can tell that from the strong guidance numbers that Peter gave earlier.

OPERATOR: Chris Whitmore, Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I wanted to ask about iPhone ASPs. They were down about 7% year-on-year in the quarter and down sequentially. Last year, they were up sequentially on the launch. Was that a product supply availability issue and how do you think about ASPs going forward?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Chris, it's Peter. Sequentially, we were relatively flat, so I will comment on a year-over-year basis. They were down 7%, as you indicated, and this was primarily due to a significant increase in the sales of our entry SKUs where we had made them more affordable to attract more first-time smart buyers.

We've also incurred some FX headwinds from the yen, the Australian dollar, and a number of the emerging markets, which impacted us, as well. I don't want to forecast ASPs for the December quarter. We will report to you in January what they were, but the FX headwinds likely continue given where exchange rates are today.

CHRIS WHITMORE: And just to follow-up on Mark's earlier question around channel inventories -- that 14 million unit number was higher than a lot of people expected. Was that also geared towards the low-end of the product stack, given the 5s was short exiting the quarter?

TIM COOK: The 5s was in huge backlog and so any kind of 5s that was in the channel was a transitionary move, maybe perhaps in transit and so forth. We did have, as I'd mentioned before -- we had 1.8 million units of total iPhone units in transit at the end of the quarter. So that is a pretty substantial number.

CHRIS WHITMORE: And just lastly, I wanted to ask about subsidies. That wasn't mentioned as a potential impact to phone margins, but can you comment on carrier subsidies more generally?

How sustainable are they, given the competitive environment? And how are carriers responding to the pricing stack of your phone line? Thanks a lot.

TIM COOK: Carriers like to sell as many units as they can and get as many people on their service. And in most regions, want them to be on service contracts, and so they are very predictable and reliable, and I don't really see that changing.

The carriers have come up with some different -- or some carriers have come up with different sales programs that might appeal to someone who wants to upgrade their phone annually instead of every other year. Those programs, in general, probably reduce the subsidy somewhat in the aggregate for people that take these up but customers may view that that's a fair exchange for getting to upgrade more often. So there is a customer proposition for it.

Other than that, we have great relationships with the carriers. I think they were, as we were, very happy with the iPhone rollout.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Chris. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes Store, as a webcast on apple.com/investor and via telephone.

The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 5599516. These replays will be available by approximately 5 PM Pacific time today.

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I am at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i3302 : Computers/Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131030e9as005eh
  


 HD
 Q3  2013 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,083 words
   PD
23 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated third-quarter fiscal-year 2013 earnings-release conference call.

   TD
Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE INC: Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you to everyone for joining us.

Speaking first today is Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he will be joined by CEO, Tim Cook, and Treasurer, Gary Whistler for the Q&A session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple Form 10-K for 2012, the Forms 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2013, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE INC: Thank you, Nancy.

We are pleased to report the results of our third fiscal quarter. We established a new June quarter record for iPhone sales, driving Apple's strongest June quarter revenue ever. Revenue for the quarter was $35.3 billion, up $300 million, or 1% from the year-ago quarter, and at the high-end of our guidance range. Gross margin was 36.9%, also at the high-end of our guidance range, and operating margin was $9.2 billion, representing 26% of revenue. Net income was $6.9 billion, translating to diluted earnings per share of $7.47.

Channel inventories declined sequentially by $1 billion during the June quarter this year, meaning that sell through was $36.3 billion. In contrast, channel inventory increased $700 million from the beginning to the end of the June quarter last year, meaning that sell through was $34.3 billion in that quarter. As such, our June quarter sell through increased by $2 billion, or 6% year over year, ahead of our 1% sell in revenue growth.

As for the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with iPhone. We sold 31.2 million iPhones compared to 26 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 5.2 million, or 20%. We had a sequential decrease of about 600,000 iPhones in channel inventory in the June quarter, translating to iPhone sell through of about 31.8 million units. iPhone sales were ahead of our expectations, and we were particularly pleased with very strong year-over-year growth in iPhone sales in a number of both developed and emerging markets, including the US, UK, Japan, Brazil, Russia, India, Thailand, and Singapore. iPhone 5 remains by far the most popular iPhone, but we were also very happy with sales of iPhone 4 and 4S. We exited the quarter with about 11 million units of total iPhones in channel inventory, and ended within our target range of four to six weeks of iPhone channel inventory.

iPhone unit sales in the US increased 51% compared to the year-ago quarter. And based on research recently published by comScore, iPhone once again achieved the number-one spot in the US smartphone market for the three-month period ending in May, with over 39% share. iPhone sales were also very strong in Japan, growing 66% year over year. iPhone is the top-selling smartphone in Japan based on the latest published quarterly data from IDC. And Apple is the number-one or number-two selling smartphone manufacturer in most markets IDC tracks, including North America, Western Europe, Russia, Turkey, Australia, Hong Kong, Thailand, Malaysia, and Singapore.

The most recently published study by Kantar measured a 93% loyalty rate among iPhone owners, significantly higher than our competitors. And iPhone continues to lead in terms of customer experience. Not only has iPhone earned the top spot in customer satisfaction from JD Power and Associates an unprecedented nine consecutive times, it has also received the top customer satisfaction ranking in a number of surveys, including the recent Quality Insight survey of smartphone customers in South Korea.

iPhone also continues to be the smartphone of choice for business. Given the security and stability of iOS, enterprise and government customers around the world continue to deploy iPhone on their networks in ways that go far beyond personal productivity. Companies have built tens of thousands of custom apps to improve every aspect of their business. Global companies, including American Airlines, Cisco, General Electric, Roche and SAP, have deployed more than 25,000 iPhones each across their organizations.

US government organizations such as NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the ATF, and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency are supporting and managing thousands of iPhones on their networks and continue to create both customer-facing and internal iOS apps. Just this past quarter, iOS 6 was granted FIPS 140-2 validation by the US Federal Government and approval by the US Department of Defense to connect to their networks. Combining sales to business, government, and education customers, iPhone holds a 62.5% share of the US commercial market based on the latest quarterly data published by IDC.

Turning to iPad, we sold 14.6 million iPads during the quarter, compared to 17 million in the year-ago quarter. The tough year-over-year comparison was driven by both a significant channel inventory increase and the first full quarter of the availability of the third-generation iPad in the year-ago quarter. We built 1.2 million units of iPad channel inventory in the June quarter last year, where as we reduced channel inventory by 700,000 units in the June quarter this year. Factoring in this 1.9 million unit channel inventory swing, iPad unit sell through was down 3% year over year. We exited the quarter with about 4.1 million units of iPad channel inventory, within our target range of four to six weeks.

Customers continue to love their iPads. For the second consecutive time in the two-year history of the survey, iPad ranked number one in the 2013 US Tablet Satisfaction Survey by JD Power and Associates. And again, in its latest study published today, Chitika reported that iPad accounted for 84.3% share of tablet web usage by customers in the US and Canada, its highest level this year.

In every major industry around the world, companies are developing, deploying, and supporting apps for iPad. Government organizations, as well as global enterprise companies across diverse fields, including automotive, insurance, energy services, and healthcare are using iPad and custom apps to create unique, meaningful experiences for their employees, partners, and customers. The USDA's National Agricultural Statistics Service has deployed thousands of iPads to in-person interviewers resulting in higher response rates and decreased cost. And companies including Eli Lilly, Novartis, CafÃ©ife, Roche, and SAP have developed over 20,000 -- have deployed over 20,000 iPads each across their organizations.

Turning to Mac, we are pleased with sales of 3.8 million Macs, which is a 7% decline from the year-ago quarter but higher than our expectations. IDC estimates that the global personal computer market contracted by 11% during the June quarter, indicating that Mac's gained share. In June, we introduced two new versions of MacBook Air, and customer response has been great. Wired Magazine described the new 13-inch MacBook air as nearly flawless, citing its phenomenal battery life, processing performance, feather-light chassis, and super-fast Wi-Fi. Additionally, last month, we provided a sneak peek at our next-generation Mac Pro. Engineered around workstation graphics with dual GPUs, PCI express-based flash storage, high-performance Thunderbolt 2, next-generation Xeon processors, ultra-fast memory, and support for 4K video. The new state-of-the-art Mac Pro will be assembled in the US and will be available later this year.

We were excited to release a developer preview of OS X Mavericks last month. More than 200 new features, with more than 200 new features, OS X Mavericks brings Maps and iBooks to the Mac; introduces Finder Tags and Tabs; enhances multi-display support for power users; delivers new core technologies for breakthrough power efficiency and performance; and includes an all-new version of Safari. OS X Mavericks will be available to customers in the fall.

We ended the quarter with just below our four- to five-week target range of Mac channel inventory. Our US education institution business had a great quarter, generating its highest quarterly revenue ever. The results were fueled by all-time record quarterly iPad sales of 1.1 million units, in addition to strong June quarter Mac sales. The state of Maine's Learning Technology initiative, which provides the state's middle school and high school students and teachers with personal computing solutions, allowed individual school districts to choose which products to purchase, rather than standardize on a single statewide solution. We are very proud that an estimated 94% of the 69,000 total units selected this year were Apple products. And we are extremely pleased to have received the Los Angeles School Board of Education's unanimous approval to begin the first phase of a massive rollout of iPads to students across the District starting this fall. The District is the second-largest in the United States and plans to equip every one of the 660,000 students with a tablet by 2014.

We continue to be very pleased with the growth and strength of the Apple ecosystem. With the broadest geographic reach and depth of content in the industry, our iTunes Stores generated record billions of $4.3 billion in the June quarter, culminating in our best month and best week ever for App Store billings at the very end of the quarter. The quarter's iTunes billings translated to quarterly revenue of $2.4 billion, up 29% from the year-ago quarter, with strong growth in revenue from both content and apps. The continued strong iTunes sales combined with other software and service revenue resulted in total quarterly revenue of $4 billion from iTunes software and services.

We added some great new video content to iTunes and Apple TV. Last month, we announced HBO GO and Watch ESPN are now available directly on Apple TV, joining programming from Hulu Plus, Netflix streaming catalog, live sports from MLB, NBA, and NHL, as well as intranet content from Vimeo, YouTube and Flickr. Sky News, Crunchyroll, and Qello are offering live news, sports, and current TV programming. Apple TV users can now choose from a broad selection of programming, including over 60,000 movies and over 230,000 TV episodes, as well as the world's largest collection of music on the iTunes Store. iTunes users have downloaded more than 1 billion TV episodes and 390 million movies from iTunes to date, and they are purchasing over 800,000 TV episodes and over 350,000 movies per day.

We recently celebrated the five-year anniversary of our amazing App Store. Our developers have now created more than 900,000 iOS apps, including 375,000 apps made for iPad. The popularity of these apps remains incredibly strong. (Inaudible) app downloads have surpassed 50 billion, and app developers have made over $11 billion for their sales through the App Store, half of which was earned in the last four quarters.

Our vibrant ecosystem continues to drive tremendous user engagement with our devices and services. We now have over 320 million iPod accounts and 240 million Game Center accounts. And our customers have sent almost 900 billion iMessages, uploaded over 125 billion photos, and received over 8 trillion Push Notifications. And thanks to the stability and security and popularity of the iOS platform, the iOS devices continue to have a strong lead over Android in the enterprise. In its most recently published quarterly Enterprise Device Activations report, Good Technologies found that among its corporate clients, iPhone 5 was by far the most frequently activated device of any kind, and iPads represented 88% of all tablet activations.

We are continuing to invest in software and services to make the ecosystem and user experience even richer. This fall, we released a beta version of iWork for iCloud, bringing Pages, Numbers, and Keynotes to the web. The iWork for iCloud, users would be able to create great looking letters, reports and flyers; generate complex, yet beautiful spread sheets; and develop and deliver beautiful presentations with powerful graphics and special effects, all from within a web browser. We are extremely excited about the fall launch of iOS 7, with this stunning new user interface and many great new features, including Control Center, Airdrop and iTunes Radio, smarter multitasking, and enhancements to Notification Center, photos, Safari, and Siri.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue for the quarter was $4.1 billion, approximately equal to the year-ago quarter. The stores experienced strong growth in iPhone sales and had their most successful MacBook Air launch to date. We opened six new stores across five countries during the quarter, with -- and ended the quarter with a total of 408 stores, including 156 outside the United States. We expect to open nine new stores in the September quarter, bringing us to a total of 27 new store openings in fiscal '13. We also relocated four stores in the June quarter that had outgrown their former space, and we expect to complete a total of 23 such relocations in fiscal '13.

With an average of 405 stores open in the June quarter, average revenue per store was $10.1 million, compared to $11.1 million in the year-ago quarter. Retail segment income was $667 million. We hosted 84 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, which translates to 16,000 visitors per store per week. Operating expenses were $3.8 billion and included $488 million of stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $234 million, and the tax rate for the quarter was 26.9%.

Turning to our cash, we ended the quarter with $146.6 billion in cash plus short-term and long-term marketable securities, compared to $144.7 billion at the end of the March quarter, a sequential increase of $1.9 billion. $106 billion of our total cash was offshore at the end of the June quarter, and cash flow from operations was $7.8 billion. In early April, we concluded the $1.95 billion accelerated share repurchase program that we initiated in December quarter, resulting in cumulative retirement of over 4 million shares of Apple stock under that program.

In late April, we executed a very successful debt offering, issuing $17 billion of debt across 3-, 5-, 10- and 30-year maturities. We paid $2.8 billion in dividends in the quarter, and we also utilized a total of $16 billion in cash on share repurchase activity through a combination of a new, accelerated share repurchase program and open-market purchases. $12 billion of the $16 billion was utilized under a new ASR program, initiated with two financial institutions in April. An initial delivery of 23.5 million shares was made under this program, with the final number of shares delevered and average price per share to be determined at the conclusion of the program, based on the volume weighted average purchase price of Apple stock over the program period, which will conclude in fiscal '14.

In addition to the new ASR, we executed $4 billion of open market share repurchases, resulting in the retirement of $9 million additional shares. Our Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $3.05 per common share, payable on August 15, 2013, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 12, 2013.

Now, as we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $34 billion and $37 billion, compared to $36 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 36% and 37%, reflecting approximately $90 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be between $3.9 billion and $3.95 billion, including about $495 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $200 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.5%.

In closing, we are pleased with our record June quarter iPhone sales, the strong growth in revenue from iTunes software and services, and the continued enhancement and popularity of our tremendously vibrant ecosystem. We are very excited about the upcoming releases of the stunning new iOS 7 and OS X Mavericks, and we are very hard at work on some amazing new products that we will introduce in the fall and across 2014.

With that, I would like to open the call to questions.

Questions and Answers

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter. We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Peter, as you mentioned in the press release today, new products will ship this fall. And historically, gross margins do come down in a product transition quarter, but that's not reflected in your outlook. So can you talk about why this product cycle might be different?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Katy, as I said in my prepared remarks, we expect gross margins to be between 36% and 37%, which is consistent with what we expected in the June quarter. On a sequential basis, that would mean that gross margin would be largely flat to slightly down. We are on track to have a very busy fall. I'd like to leave it there and go into more detail in October.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay. As a follow-up, can you talk about why you think channel inventory came down more than seasonally this quarter? Also, inventory on your balance sheet was up significantly. Is that a direct result of the channel wanting to hold less inventory?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Katy, I will take the balance sheet part of your question, and Tim can talk about the channel. The inventory on the balance sheet was really up for two reasons. First, we've got more storage this year than we had last, so our finished good inventory was a part of the inventory increase. Then, our components inventory was up, as well.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC: Katy, it's Tim.

From an iPad point of view, or iPad and iPhone, we reduced inventory and reduced it fairly significantly. iPad was down over 700,000 units from the beginning of the quarter, and iPhone was down over 600,000. As you know from working with us over several quarters, we typically don't like to have any more inventory than we need. And so, if we can find a way to reduce, we do so. We've done that in both of these cases. We also had slight decreases in the Macintosh area and on iPod.

OPERATOR: Goldman Sachs, Bill Shope.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I have a bit of a longer-term question. Despite the fairly substantial iPhone upside this quarter, there's been increasing concern that the high end of the smartphone market is reaching a saturation point and that growth may be harder to come by really for all vendors. What's your perspective on that and the current industry dynamics? Tim, do think there are new innovations and services in the pipeline that can reinvigorate the premium segment of the market, after what's obviously been a bit of a tough 2013 for that segment for the industry?

TIM COOK: From a growth point of view, for Apple, our key catalyst would be, always will be, new products and new services. These are both in existing categories that we're in and in new categories. In addition to this, we have opportunities in distribution from carrier relationships to expanding our retail stores, expanding our online store, and continuing to expand the indirect channel. We also have a market expansion opportunity. Peter mentioned Enterprise in his comments, and the share positions that we have there are over 60% in both iPad and iPhone. I think we are at the very front end of that. So, I think we have lots of growth opportunities.

I don't subscribe to the common view that the higher end, if you will, the smartphone market has hit its peak. I don't believe that. But, we will see and we will report our results as we go along.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Great. Then, on the iPad side of the equation, looking at the sell-through decline this quarter, obviously ex the channel inventory dynamics, should we think of this as more of a pause within your customer base ahead of your next refresh, as we've seen in the past? Or, is there a broader industry dynamic at play within tablet that could contribute to that?

TIM COOK: For us, if you look year over year, we had a 2.4 million unit decline. But 80% of that, or 1.9 million units, were just due to changes in channel inventory. As I think Peter referenced earlier, we reduced by over 700,000 in the current quarter, and the year-ago quarter had an increase of 1.2 million. So, the underlying sell through declined by just 3%. If you look at the situation that we were in, in the year-ago quarter, we had just announced the third-generation iPad, which was our first iPad with a retina display. We'd announced in March and said that was our first full quarter. So, from what Peter and I expected 90 days ago, we hit within the midpoint of the range that we expected to hit in on iPad unit sales. So, it was not a surprise to us.

In terms of how other people are doing, I don't know. What I can tell you is the most recent data I've gotten, which actually just came out, I believe, this morning, is that the iPad web share data shows that through the quarter, we accelerated further and are now, iPad accounts for 84% of the web traffic from tablet, which is absolutely incredible. So, if there are lots of other tablets selling, I don't know what they are being used for, because, that's a pretty -- the basic function is web browsing.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Thank you.

TIM COOK: We feel really good about where we are. We had, Peter had mentioned earlier, we had an incredible quarter in US education, setting a new record for iPad. We are really happy to be selected for the first phase of the 660,000 unit rollout in LA Unified, and a really bold move that they are making to change teaching and learning. We had double-digit unit growth in China for iPad, in Japan, in Canada, in Latin America, in Russia, in the Middle East, and in India. So, we are really happy with what we saw.

OPERATOR: Sanford Bernstein, Toni Sacconaghi.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I was wondering if you could provide some gross margin bridge, sequentially. I think last quarter, you had about a 90-basis-point, one-time impact from the China warranty accrual. So, if we adjust for that, gross margins were down about 150 basis points sequentially. The mix of products was relatively similar to last quarter, given that you are also riding the experience curve in these products. I was surprised, given the mix, that gross margins were as down as much sequentially as they were. Can you provide a bridge on a sequential basis on what happened with gross margin?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. First of all, let me say we are very pleased with gross margin in the quarter at 36.9%. It was at the -- really the high-end of the range that we had provided of 36% to 37%. And the sequential decline was not a surprise to us. We understood the warranty effects in March. And as I said on last quarter's call, we expect that our margins to be down sequentially, primarily for two reasons. The first is a lower sequential revenue. So, we lost leverage going from March to June. We expected a different product mix. As you can see, we reported very near the top end of it and feel good.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Peter, the mix ultimately was not that different. I think iPhones were 52.5%; last quarter they were 51.5%. It actually seems like your mix was, perhaps, better than you had anticipated. So, I appreciate the volume revenue mix, but was your mix exactly in line with what you expected?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We had some puts and takes within the quarter. But, it was, ultimately, ended up within the range that we thought it would be and we hit the high-end.

TONI SACCONAGHI: The second one I was wondering whether you could comment on, was iPhone ASPs. They were down about 5% sequentially, or down about 10% over the last two quarters. I presume that's principally due to a higher mix of 4s and 4S's. But I was wondering if you could comment on what's driving that change in ASP and whether it's more pronounced in certain geographies versus others.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We were down 4% year over year on the iPhone ASP, about $27. That was primarily due to the mix of the products that we are selling and FX headwinds. As we anticipated, iPhone 4 sales accelerated as we offered more affordable pricing and emerging in other markets. So, that's a year-over-year basis. Then, sequentially, it was down about $32. Again, that was driven by mix, as well, in part, iPhone 4. Tim, do want to make comments about what we may have seen in the regions?

TIM COOK: Yes, sure. From an iPhone point of view, Tony, with the moves that we made on 4 and with iPhone 5 continuing to be the most popular model, we saw very strong sales in several of the emerging markets, or prepaid markets. India was up over 400%. Turkey and Poland were both up over 60%. The Philippines were up about 140%. These were -- in addition, we saw very strong iPhone sales in several of the development markets. For example, the US was up over 50%. Japan up over 60%, the UK about 50%. So we had several regions where iPhone growth actually accelerated from the previous quarter, which is a unusual pattern for us, and we were very happy with this.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Notably absent from that list was China. Was that -- was your pricing how you treated the change pricing this quarter relative to previous quarters any different in China than the rest of the world?

TIM COOK: China was weaker in the quarter, although the data sheet that obviously focuses on revenue doesn't really tell the complete story here. If you look at sell through, as we had mentioned earlier with the inventory changes, it's important to do that. So our sell through in China was only down 4% from the year-ago quarter, when you normalize for channel inventory. Hong Kong was actually down more significantly than that. Mainland China was actually up, year over year. It was up 5%. But that is a lower growth rate than we have been seeing. I attribute it to many things. Including the economy there, clearly doesn't help us nor others. In Hong Kong, Hong Kong is an international shopping haven, as you know, for not only for tourists, but also some resellers. And we saw more dramatic downturn there. It's not totally clear exactly why that occurred. But it was down on a sell- through basis by about 20%. So, that weighed Greater China down, as you can see in your data sheet.

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I've got four too. Kidding. The question that I wanted to ask was with regard to -- there's been a lot of talk about a trade-in program that you guys are going to start even doing on your own with regard to iPhones. Is there any update on that? If so, is that something that could help margins and help expand your emerging markets sales? And how's that going to work? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Ben, we haven't announced anything relative to a trade-in program. So, what you've seen is rumor or (inaudible). There are a number of channels that do trade-in programs now, not only in the US, but in different regions. The reason that it's so attractive around iPhones is that the residual value of the iPhone stays so high and there's so much demand for it. So that makes the trade-in programs more lucrative to -- or win-win from many points of view. But, we haven't announced anything that we are --

BEN REITZES: Are you opposed to it?

TIM COOK: No, I'm not opposed to it. I see channels doing it, and I like the environmental aspect of it. So, that part of it really is encouraging to me.

BEN REITZES: Okay. And then really quick on China, you answered some of it in the question before. How do we turn it around here? China and other APACE, what can we do to make it turn? And there's been some press in China that, obviously, you had to deal with. When do we see that market turning? You know that investors are very worried about it from a secular point of view, as well as the economy there.

TIM COOK: I think it's important to put it in perspective. If you combine the retail stores that we have in greater China, our revenues there were $4.9 billion for the quarter, so, that's about 14% of the Company, which is very significant. And a few years ago, that was in the $100 millions. So, we've grown our business there significantly. We have a very strong market there, and in the last 12 months, we've done $27 billion on a trailing basis. So, it's a huge, huge business for us. Under the -- underlying the results are if you look at iPad, sell through in greater China was up 8%, but sell through in mainland China was up 37%. So, iPad is doing remarkably well. The latest share numbers we've seen for iPad for the tablet market is over 50%. Year to date, iPad units are up 48% year over year, instead of -- there have great growth there.

From an ecosystem point of view, we continued to attract a lot of developers from China. We now have about 0.5 million developers in China that are working on iOS apps. That's up almost 70% year over year. So, I think that's fantastic, not only for China, but for outside of China, as many offer their apps through -- in different stores around the world. We are, obviously, paying the developers quite a bit. So, that's furthering the advancement -- the ecosystem of developers. We are continuing to invest in distribution. We are going to double the number of retail stores there over the next two years. And we are continuing to lift iPhone point of sales and iPad sales, both of which are currently lower than where we would like them or need them to be. But, we are doing that very cautiously, because we want to do it with great quality. So, I continue to believe that in the arc of time here, China is a huge opportunity for Apple. I don't get discouraged over a 90-day cycle that can have economic factors and other things.

OPERATOR: From Piper Jaffray, Gene Munster.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: You talked about more affordable pricing than generic. Can you confirm that was just with the iPhone 4? And then separately, as you think about the growth that you've had in some of these emerging markets, it sounds like some more recently have come from affordable pricing. But also, you potentially could address those markets with products that are more appropriate for those markets. Maybe can you just talk from a very high level, as how you think about -- are those both levers that you potentially could use? Or do you feel that pricing is the lever? And then a follow-up question.

TIM COOK: Gene, it's Tim. The reference that Peter made earlier was to the iPhone 4. What we've seen is that the number of first-time smartphone buyers that the iPhone 4 is attracting is very impressive. We want to attract as many of these buyers as we can. We saw that beginning to happen toward the end of the Q2 time frame, as I had referenced on last quarter's call. We did that on a wider-spread basis, offered the more affordable pricing on a wider scale basis this quarter and continue to be very happy with what we saw. Where iPhone 5 continues to be the most popular iPhone by far, we are really happy to provide an incredible, high-quality product with iPhone 4 running iOS 6 to as many first-time smartphone buyers as we can. I think it's proven to be exactly a great product for that buyer.

GENE MUNSTER: Do think there are more weapons that you could use in these markets to continue the pace that you have?

TIM COOK: There's always more weapons. We have more than one tool in the toolbox. It's a great way for a buyer to get into the iOS ecosystem. And the customers set ratings that we have with the iOS 6 and the stickiness of the platform is huge. So, it's great for customers, and we're very glad to offer it.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. My follow-up question is, just in terms of the growth question that some investors have about how you keep such a high revenue growth number moving. Last quarter you referred to new products that have already been, and this time you referred to more products over the next few years. Are there product categories out there that are big enough to move the needle for Apple?

TIM COOK: We will see, Gene. We are working on some stuff that we are really proud of. We will see how it does, and we'll announced things when we are ready.

OPERATOR: Cross Research, Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Tim, can you talk broadly about your discussions with both existing and potential carrier partners? I would think the 66% growth in Japan might prod one in particular to be entrusted in some of the coming product. Also, there's been comments about Russia and concerns in general about pricing and that. So, how in general, have your discussions with your carrier partners been?

TIM COOK: I would classify them as being good. The press I've seen on Russia probably needs some color. The articles I've seen suggested that we are not selling iPhone through carrier-owned stores, if that's the one that you are referencing. If you look at the Russian market, over 80% of smartphones are sold in retail there, outside of carrier-owned stores. We sell through a number of national chains there. In fact, our activations in Russia for iPhone set a record last quarter; it was our highest quarter in Russia ever. So we are really happy with how we are doing there. We do continue to sell through some carrier-owned stores, as well. But obviously, the contribution is much less than the retail organizations and so forth. So, I think that's probably not well understood there. We are continually looking for other relationships and to both add and enhance the ones we've got. I do think there's some opportunities there for us.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Great.

Then, can you talk a bit about commodities, just in terms of pricing of some of your key commodities, the ability to procure them? And how some of your supply chain is working these days.

TIM COOK: Sure. We certainly have no problem procuring them. In terms of where we see pricing headed, and this would have been factored into the gross margin guidance that Peter gave earlier. Despite the very weak PC market, DRAM pricing has actually increased. And we see continued upper pressure in this area. NAN pricing is fairly stable and is following seasonal trends as we would expect. Both [LTDs] and[ HTDs] have -- the prices have fallen, and we would expect further reductions in these areas. If you look at other commodities, they appear to be in a supply-demand balance, so we would expect the pricing to decline on these at historical levels.

OPERATOR: UBS, Steve Milunovich.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, first, could you clarify whether in your fiscal fourth-quarter guidance you have any of these new products assume shipping in the quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Steve, that's not something that I can comment on.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. Then, Tim, a philosophical question. Whenever you talk about what's important to the Company, it always comes back to great products, better be more important than more? Wall Street is in the more business. I just wonder, talk about your philosophy, and if you can come up with a couple really great products, maybe they provide enough growth, maybe they don't. You don't seem as focused on financial metrics and growth projections as a lot of companies are. Maybe tie that a little bit into your functional organization. Does that limit how many products you can actually take to market over time?

TIM COOK: Steve, I think about it differently than that. The way I think about it is, we are here to make great products. We think that if we focus on that and do that really well, that the financial metrics will also come. So, we don't see those two things being mutually exclusive. We see them having great overlap. I think if you look at how the Company has executed over many years, it would suggest that that's possible.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: But you don't going to into it saying we need to get X percent growth; what do we need to do from a product standpoint? It sounds like you go the opposite. What are some really great products we can do it, and if we do that, the metrics take care of themselves?

TIM COOK: We start at the product, because we believe that the most important thing is that our customers love the products and want them. If you don't start at that level, you can wind up creating things that people don't want. And so we try very hard to focus on products and customers and enriching customers and making great products.

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: I have two, also. Tim, I'm going to start with you, if I can. To Bill's earlier question, Bill Shope's, on you don't think the high-end is saturated, and yet, ASPs have come down quite a bit on iPhones. I was wondering if you could speak philosophically. Is the current mix what we should be thinking about for iPhones? And more specifically, would you anticipate that ASPs would continue to trend lower in iPhones or stay where they are at least directionally?

TIM COOK: Keith, in terms of -- we don't project ASPs. We do give guidance, so we have an assumption on the ASP for the current quarter in our guidance, obviously, to come up with the numbers that Peter talked about earlier. If you look underneath the iPhone numbers, as I think Peter alluded to earlier, we saw significant growth, clearly, in the lower price point, year over year, which, for us, is iPhone 4. It's still a great product. And that was one of the things, and the iPhone 5 doing well, that allowed us to significantly beat what I think was probably the vast majority of expectations out there for iPhone sales. So, obviously, if we do a lot better at the low-end and we sell more of those and the mix changed, it has changed across the last year. If you look at 3GS last year, which was in the comparable position as our entry product, we are selling a lot more 4s than 3GSs. I think we both understand the market much better, and have our fingers on the pulse of distribution in different countries and, so forth, this year. I'm sure that we will get better and better at that over time, and how that will change mix, I don't know.

Typically, for us a product has the highest mix during its initial few months of sales. So, you'd have a natural seasonal decline over time of the product cycle. That generally happens on iPhone. It generally happens on iPad. We've seen it happen on the Mac over many years. So, I don't see anything that fundamentally would change that. But, again, we are going to look at this thing quarter by quarter and tell you how we look at the quarter and give you guidance for it as we go.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. All right.

Then, Peter for you, there's been a few comments on gross margins. I want to try to broaden it out a bit. In the past, as you look at the one quarter forward, which would be the September quarter, you've given us some of the puts and takes to think about. There's been a couple specific questions asked about, but I want to broad it out and see if you could highlight what you think are the puts and takes in the September quarter, as you see them today. Particularly with reference to the quarter you just reported. Thank you.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. I'm going to keep my comments limited, but I will give you a put and a take. For the tailwind, we would expect our component costs to be favorable in the quarter.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Conversely, we would expect some FX pressure in the quarter, given the strengthening of the dollar, particularly against the yen.

OPERATOR: Raymond James, Tavis McCourt.

TAVIS MCCOURT, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Peter, first a clarification on the share buyback. Can you tell us what the ending basic share count was in the third quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me -- all of that is on the income statement. So you've got the ending, basic, and diluted. But let me give you a couple points that I think could be helpful for you. During the June quarter, we concluded the first $4 billion -- I'm sorry, $2 billion ASR program that we started in December. Then we got the final shares in on those. And we did our second ASR program of $12 billion. That started at the end of April, and we received $23.5 million shares in initially on that. As I went through in my prepared remarks, at some point during fiscal '14, that program will close, and we will get the final number of shares. We also bought back $4 billion of stock in the open market during the June quarter and received about 9 million shares.

So, the impact of those in the June quarter lowered our diluted share count in the quarter by about 22.9 million shares. As you look forward into the September quarter, before any further buybacks or any issuance to employees, we would expect to see an additional approximate 11 million share benefit from the things that occurred during the June quarter.

TAVIS MCCOURT: Thank you.

One for you, Tim. One of the comments out of the developers conference was iOS will be in 12 different car manufacturer models next year. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about that opportunity, whether it's a license opportunity? What's the strategic relevance of that, if you are willing to?

TIM COOK: I'm sorry, I couldn't hear that question.

TAVIS MCCOURT: I think at the developers conference, there was a comment about iOS being built into a number of car manufacturer models for next year. So, wondered if you could talk about the strategic relevance to that or what the business model might be for that for Apple?

TIM COOK: I see it as very important. It is a part of the ecosystem. So just like the App Store is a key part of the ecosystem, and iTunes, and all of our content are key, and the services we provide from messaging to Siri and so forth, having something in the automobile, is very important. It's something that people want, and I think that Apple can do this in a unique way and better than anyone else. So, it's a key focus for us.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Tavis.

A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a pod cast on the iTunes Store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor and via telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 7156020. These replays will be available by approximately 5 pm Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts contact Joan Hooper or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408974-4570, and I am at 408-974-5420.

Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i3302 : Computers/Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130730e97n00691
  


 HD
 Q2  2013 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,056 words
   PD
23 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this Apple Inc. second-quarter fiscal year 2013 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today are Apple's CEO Tim Cook, and CFO Peter Oppenheimer. And they'll be joined by Treasurer Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes future products, and capital allocation plans. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2012, the Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2013, and the Forms 8-K filed with the SEC today along with the Associated Press releases. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim Cook for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC.: Thanks, Nancy. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. We have a lot of news to share with you today about the details of our March quarter, as well as a significant increase to our capital return program. First, I'd like to talk about our business and the road ahead. We're now halfway through our fiscal 2013 and we've accomplished a tremendous amount. We've introduced and ramped production of an unprecedented number of new products. And we've set many new sales records. Our revenue for the first half was over $98 billion. And our net income was over $22 billion. During that time we sold 85 million iPhones and 42 million iPads. These are very large numbers, unimaginable even to us just a few years ago.

Despite producing results that met or beat our guidance, as we have done consistently, we know they didn't meet everyone's expectations. And though we've achieved incredible scale and financial success, we acknowledge that our growth rate has slowed, and our margins have decreased from the exceptionally high level we experienced in 2012. Our revenues grew about $13 billion in the first half of this fiscal year. Even though that's like adding the total first-half revenue of five Fortune 500 companies, our average weekly growth slowed to 19%. And our gross margins are closer to the levels of a few years ago.

Our fiscal 2012 results were incredibly strong. And that's making comparisons very difficult this year. Last year, our business benefited from both high growth and demand for our products, and a corresponding growth in channel inventories, along with a richer mix of higher gross margin products, a more favorable foreign currency environment and historically low costs. These compares are made further challenging until we anniversary the launch of the iPad Mini, which, as you know, we strategically priced at a lower margin. As Peter will discuss, we are guiding to flat revenues year over year for the June quarter, along with a slight sequential decline in gross margins.

The decline in Apple's stock price over the last couple of quarters has been very frustrating to all of us. But Apple remains very strong and we will continue to do what we do best. We can't control items such as exchange rates and world economies, and even certain cost pressures. But the most important objective for Apple will always be creating innovative products. And that is directly within our control. We will continue to focus on the long term and we remain very optimistic about our future. We're participating in large and growing markets. We see great opportunities in front of us, particularly given the long-term prospects of the smartphone and tablet markets, the strength of our incredible ecosystem, which we plan to continue to augment with new services, our plans for expanded distribution, and the potential of exciting new product categories.

Take the smartphone market, for example. IDC estimates that this market will double between 2012 and 2016 to an incredible 1.4 billion units annually. And Gartner estimates that the tablet market is growing at an even faster rate, from 125 million units in 2012 to a projected 375 million by 2016. Our teams are hard at work on some amazing new hardware, software and services that we can't wait to introduce this fall and throughout 2014. We continue to be very confident in our future product plans.

Apple has many distinct and unique advantages as the only company in the industry with world-class skills in hardware, software and services. We have the strongest ecosystem in the industry with app stores in 155 countries, iTunes music stores in 119 countries, hundreds of millions of iCloud users around the world. And, most importantly, the highest loyalty and customer satisfaction rates in the business. And, of course, we have a tremendous culture of innovation, with a relentless focus on making the world's best products that change people's lives. This is the same culture and company that brought the world the iPhone and the iPad, and we've got a lot more surprises in the works.

A little over a year ago, we announced a plan to return $45 billion to shareholders over three years. Since we began paying dividends last August, and began share buybacks last October, we've already returned $10 billion under that program. But we continue to generate cash in excess of our needs to operate the business, invest in our future, and maintain flexibility to take advantage of strategic opportunities. We remain firmly committed to our objective of delivering attractive returns to shareholders through both our business performance and the return of capital.

So today we are announcing an aggressive plan that more than doubles the size of the capital return program we announced last year to a total of $100 billion by the end of calendar year 2015. The vast majority of our incremental cash return will be in the form of share repurchases. As the Board and management team deliberated among the various alternatives in returning cash, we concluded that investing in Apple was the best. In addition to share repurchases, we are increasing our current dividend by 15% to further appeal to investors seeking yield. And as part of our updated program, we will access the debt markets. Peter will provide more details about all of this in a moment.

We appreciate the input that so many of our shareholders have provided us on how best to deploy our cash. We will review our cash allocation strategy each year. And we will continue to invest confidently in the business to bring great new products to market, strategically deploy capital in our supply chain, our retail stores, and our infrastructure. And make acquisitions to expand our capabilities. We will be disciplined in what we do but we will not under invest.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Peter to discuss the details of the March quarter. Peter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Tim. We are pleased to report the results of our second fiscal quarter. We established new March quarter records for iPhone and iPad sales, and a new all-time record for iTunes sales. Leading to Apple's strongest March quarter revenue ever. Revenue for the first quarter was $43.6 billion, compared to $39.2 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of $4.4 billion or 11% and $600 million over the high end of our guidance range. The year-over-year revenue increase was fueled primarily by strong growth in iPad and iTunes sales, as well as continued strong revenue from iPhone and Mac. Operating margin was $12.6 billion, representing 28.8% of revenue. Net income was $9.5 billion, translated to diluted earnings per share of $10.09.

As for the details of the quarter I'd like to begin with iPhone. We sold 37.4 million iPhones compared to 35.1 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of over 2.3 million, or 7%. We ended the quarter with about 11.6 million total iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 1 million iPhones. And we ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPhone channel inventory. Based on research published earlier this month by comScore, iPhone garnered the number one spot in the US smartphone market for the three-month period ended in February, with 39% share, up from 35% in the previous survey period.

And in Japan, IDC Japan announced that iPhone gained the number one position for all of calendar year 2012, as well as for calendar Q4 2012 in both handsets and smartphones. This is also the first time a non-Japanese company has achieved the number one spot for an entire year. In addition, Apple was ranked number one in Nikkei's 2013 Japan brand survey, achieving the top spot for the second year in a row, which is unprecedented for a non-Japanese company. Around the world, based on its latest published estimates, IDC ranked iPhone number one or two in smartphone sales in over half the countries IDC tracks.

A recent study by Kantar measured a 95% loyalty rate among iPhone owners, substantially higher than the competition. And iPhone remains top in customer experience. Last month we were very pleased to receive the number one ranking in smartphone customer satisfaction from JD Power and Associates for the ninth consecutive time.

Businesses around the world continue to scale iPhone across their workforces. Globally, nearly 30,000 companies are developing and distributing iOS apps for corporate use by their employees. Cisco's Bring Your Own Device program across 80 countries has resulted in a 50% increase in the number of iPhones connecting to its corporate network in the past year. GlaxoSmithKline has developed more than 50 in-house iOS apps to support the thousands of iPhones and iPads connecting to its corporate network. Other companies, such as [Axis], Nordstrom's, Eaton Corporation, and Takeda Pharmaceuticals are supporting thousands of iPhones. And are continually adding new in-house apps to better serve customers and help employees work more efficiently.

Turning to iPads, we were thrilled to sell 19.5 million iPads during the quarter compared to 11.8 million in the year-ago quarter. That's an increase of 7.7 million units, or 65%. IPad experienced very strong year-over-year growth in every operating segment, particularly in greater China and Japan where sales more than doubled year over year. Both iPad and iPad Mini continue to be extremely popular, and we were pleased with sales of both. We were able to sell significantly more iPad Minis in the March quarter than in the December launch quarter. And to expand availability into China. Customers love the combination of experience, performance and size that iPad Mini offers. And our early market research indicates that the overwhelming majority of iPad Mini purchasers our first-time iPad customers.

We ended the quarter with about 4.8 million iPads in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 1.4 million. All of the sequential increase was attributable to iPad Mini. As we discussed previously, we were not able to meet demand for iPad Mini in the December quarter. And entered the March quarter below our target range of channel inventory. This sequential increase places us within our target range of four to six weeks of total iPad channel inventory. The most recent survey published by ChangeWave indicated in 96% satisfaction rate among iPad customers. Not only is iPad a huge hit among consumers but it also continues to be widely adopted by business customers as well.

IPad and the iOS ecosystem are driving innovation across industries and in companies large and small. We are delighted by the number of companies that are choosing iPad for their most important business tasks, as well as the rapid adoption of iPad in emerging countries around the world. Doctors at the Columbia Cardiovascular Foundation in South America are using an in-house app to perform remote diagnostics for patients in inaccessible parts of the country. First National Bank, the oldest bank in South Africa, has issued iPads to wealth managers to help enhance customer relationships and interactions. And in the education market, Grupo Santillana has developed UNO International, an integrated, educational system that uses iPads to create digital learning environments in more than 700 private K-12 schools in Latin America. UNO International has deployed more than 60,000 iPads to schools in Mexico, Colombia and Brazil, including 17,000 iPads for teachers and students in Brazil in the March quarter alone.

Turning to Mac, we sold just under 4 million Macs, which is a 2% decline from the year-ago quarter. IDC estimates that the global personal computer market contracted by 14% during the March quarter. We experienced strong year-over-year growth in desktop sales following the December quarter launch of our stunning new iMacs, offset by a decline in portable sales given a weaker personal computer market overall. We ended the quarter within our four to five we target range of Mac channel inventory.

Moving to iPods, we sold 5.6 million iPods, compared to 7.7 million in the year-ago quarter. IPod Touch continued to account for over 50% of all iPods sold during the March quarter. IPod's share of the US market for MP3 players was over 70% in the March quarter based on the latest data published by NPD. And iPod continued to be the top-selling MP3 player in most countries we track, based on the latest data published by Gfk.

The Apple ecosystem continues to grow and thrive. And we believe it's a very important driver of our incredibly strong customer satisfaction and retention, as well as developer interest and success. This Sunday marks the 10th anniversary of the introduction of the iTunes Music Store, which revolutionized the distribution of digital content. Today, our iTunes stores offer the broadest combination of geographic reach and content depth in the industry. And they surpass quarterly billings of $4 billion for the first time ever in the March quarter. That's a $16 billion annual run rate, making our digital content stores the largest in the world. The quarter's iTunes billings translated to record quarterly iTunes revenue of $2.4 billion, up 28% from the year ago March quarter. With new quarterly revenue records for music, movies, and apps. The strong iTunes sales, in addition to other service revenue, helped us achieve for the first time more than $4 billion in combined quarterly revenue from iTunes, software and services. We are thrilled with the growth of these revenue streams.

Today we have music stores in 119 countries, offering a combined catalog of 35 million songs. We sell movies in 109 countries, offering 60,000 titles. And we have iBookstores in 155 countries, offering 1.75 million iBooks for sale. And with app stores in 155 countries that encompass almost 90% of the world's population, our developers have created more than 850,000 iOS apps, including 350,000 apps made for iPad. Cumulative app downloads have surpassed 45 billion. And app developers have made over $9 billion for their sales through the App Store, including $4.5 billion in the most recent four quarters alone. Canalys estimates the sales from our App Store accounted for 74% of all app sales worldwide in the March quarter. We believe this is in large part due to the great development environment, broad distribution, large and active user base, and seamless integration that the iOS platform offers.

Developers such as Backflip Studios have seen explosive growth in their business thanks to the success of their apps on the iOS platform. With 70 people, this Company maintains a growing suite of titles that has seen over 275 million downloads equating to nearly 5 million daily active users and 34 million monthly active users. With annual App Store sales approaching $100 million, Backflip's iOS sales comprised approximately 95% of the company's revenues in 2012.

Another tremendous success story is Supercell, founded in 2010. Based in Finland, Supercell's, Hay Day and Clash of Clans titles, available only on iOS, have been the top grossing iPad games in over 60 countries, helping the company generated $8.5 million in revenue per employee in 2012.

And in the enterprise, iOS devices have a strong lead over Android. In its most recently published quarterly enterprise device activations report, Good Technologies found that iOS devices accounted for 77% of all activations by its corporate customers. And thanks to careful App Store curation for the quality of apps, the iOS platform offers a much more secure environment. Recent research by McAfee Labs found that 97% of identified mobile malware was on the Android platform, with the remainder primarily on the Symbian and Java ME platforms.

But perhaps the most important measure of the success of our ecosystem is how engaged our customers are with our products and services. In its most recently published update, Chitika found that iPad accounted for 82% of all North American tablet web traffic in March. Interest in apps remained very strong in the March quarter, with over 800 apps downloaded per second. And year-over-year iOS app revenue more than doubling in the quarter. And since launching iCloud just 18 months ago, we now have 300 million people using it every day. We will continue to invest in the ecosystem, and have some great new features and capabilities in the pipeline.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue for the quarter was $5.2 billion, compared to $4.4 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 19%. This growth was fueled primarily by strong sales of iPhone and iPad. We ended the quarter with a total of 402 stores, including 151 outside the United States. We expect to open about 30 new stores in total in fiscal 2013. And to complete at least 20 store remodels. With an average of 401 stores open in the March quarter, average revenue per store was $13.1 million compared to $12.2 million in the year-ago quarter. Retail segment income was $1.1 billion.

We hosted 91 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, compared to 85 million in the year-ago quarter. That translates to 17,500 visitors per store per week. Total Company gross margin was 37.5%, which was at the low end of our guidance range of 37.5% to 38.5%. Operating expenses were $3.8 billion, and included $488 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $347 million and the tax rate for the quarter was 26%.

And turning to our cash, we ended the quarter with $144.7 billion in cash plus short-term and long-term marketable securities, compared to $137.1 billion at the end of the December quarter, a sequential increase of $7.6 billion. Over $102 billion of our total cash was offshore at the end of the March quarter. And cash flow from operations was $12.5 billion. We paid $2.5 billion in dividends in the March quarter. And earlier this month we concluded the $1.95 billion accelerated share repurchase program that we initiated in the December quarter. Resulting in cumulative retirement of over 4 million shares of Apple stock.

As Tim discussed, we are pleased to announce that we are more than doubling our return of capital program to $100 billion by the end of calendar year 2015, which translates to an average of about $30 billion per year. We will continue to return capital to shareholders through dividends, share repurchases, and cash used to net-share-settle vesting RSUs. To facilitate our program, we will access the debt markets.

Let me provide more details regarding the three key elements of our plans. First, our Board has increased the share buyback authorization to $60 billion from the original $10 billion announced last year. That's a $50 billion increase. This is the largest share buyback authorization of any company in history. We are very confident in Apple's future. And believe so strongly that repurchasing our shares represents an attractive use of our capital, that we have dedicated the vast majority of the increase in our capital return program to share repurchases. We will buy shares under this authorization beginning this month. We will also continue to net-share-settle employee RSUs as they vest. And expect to use about $1 billion of cash annually to do this.

Second, we are increasing our quarterly dividend from $2.65 to $3.05 per share, a 15% increase. We plan to review our quarterly dividend payment annually. Our Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $3.05 per common share, payable on May 16, 2013 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 13, 2013. We are very proud that Apple is among the largest dividend payers in the world, with annual payments of about $11 billion.

Third, we will access the US debt markets over time, and have recently secured credit ratings from S&P and Moody's. We are continuing to generate significant cash offshore. And repatriating this cash would result in significant tax consequences under current US tax laws. Incorporating debt into our capital structure will provide several benefits, including access to attractively priced capital, a reduction in our overall cost of capital, and efficient leverage of our very strong balance sheet. We expect to fund the capital return program from existing domestic cash, future cash generated in the US, and from borrowing in the US. We will maintain sufficient domestic liquidity to grow the business and execute capital expenditures and acquisitions.

The program announced today will result in returning an average of $30 billion annually to shareholders. To put this in perspective, the $30 billion would have represented substantially all of our fiscal year 2012 fully tax-free cash flow had we repatriated our foreign earnings. Between now and the end of calendar year 2015, we would expect both our foreign cash and our domestic borrowing to grow. We will continue to review each element of our capital return program on an annual basis. In conclusion, our capital return program is designed to facilitate our objective of delivering attractive returns to our shareholders on an efficient basis, while maintaining the flexibility to invest in the incredible opportunities that we continue to see for our business.

Now, as we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $33.5 billion and $35.5 billion, compared to $35 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 36% and 37%, reflecting approximately $90 billion(sic) related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be between $3.85 billion and $3.95 billion, including about $500 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $300 million. And we expect the tax rate to be about 26%.

In closing we're pleased with our record March quarter revenue and record March quarter iPhone and iPad sales. We're very proud of the breadth and depth of our tremendous ecosystem and our new all-time record for iTunes sales. We're also in the fortunate position to be able to more than double our return of capital program to $100 billion, with the largest share repurchase authorization in history. And to be one of the largest dividend payers in the world, with annual payments of about $11 billion. We remain very confident in our product pipeline.

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Peter. We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Peter, given gross margin did come in at the low end of guidance this quarter, and you're looking for another downtick in June, can you just rank for us the biggest factors that are limiting the margin recovery, even as I assume costs are coming down to the new products? And then I have a follow-up.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. In the March quarter, our gross margin was 37.5%, was at the low end of our range. We had a few items that, on balance, resulted in us reporting at the low end. They included mix, in particular, selling more iPads than we had planned, including getting iPad Mini into our four- to six-week channel inventory range, some changes in our service policies that required us to make provisions for prior-quarter sales, and we had some unfavorable adjustments.

As I look forward to the June quarter, we're guiding gross margin to be down between 50 and 150 basis points sequentially. We see two factors impacting gross margin sequentially. First, and the largest of the two, is the loss of leverage on sequentially lower revenue. And second, a different product mix. We expect both of these headwinds to be partially offset by better costs in the quarter.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay. Thank you. And Tim, a question for you on China. Growth did slow in that market to single digits this quarter. Curious your perspective as to whether Apple's hitting a wall, given you don't have the largest carrier formally selling your products? And then just any thoughts around the stickiness of customers in China, given you don't have an iTunes Store there, and data shows that they download fewer apps than in developed countries? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Katy, thanks for the question. We actually had our best quarter ever in greater China. It was a record for us. The revenue came in at $8.8 billion. That includes our retail stores that are in that region. That's up 11% year-on-year. Again, that includes the retail stores that are in that region, which is the same as Apple is growing.

The highlights for the quarter in China were that iPads grew 138% year-on-year, and we set new records for sell-through for iPhone and iPad during the quarter. There were some significant year-over-year timing differences with regard to channel inventory relative to iPhone that affected the compares year over year. In particular, in the year-ago quarter we increased iPhone channel inventories globally by $2.6 billion, as you probably recall. $1.6 billion of the $2.6 billion occurred in greater China to support the launches that were in the March quarter of last year.

And so if you look at revenue on a sell-through basis, greater China revenue was actually up approximately 18%. And so it's a bit better than it first looks. As I said, in the year-ago quarter, we launched the iPhone 4S with China Unicom in January and we launched China Telecom in March. This year the iPhone 5 launched in December. And so, it's a very different set of dynamics on a year-on-year basis.

Going forward, we still see a significant opportunity in China. It's a great market. We have 11 stores there. We expect to double those in less than two years. We have added about 8,000 iPhone point of sales in the indirect channel, to about 19,000 today, and we obviously have a plan to add more and further grow our distribution. This number's obviously too low currently.

We are also innovating with our online store there, and adding different functionality to the store. China has an unusually large number of potential first-time smartphone buyers. And that's not lost on us. We've seen a significant interest in iPhone 4 there and have recently made it even more affordable to make it even more attractive to those first-time buyers. And so, we're hopeful that that will help iPhone sales in the future.

KATY HUBERTY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Tim, you mentioned several factors that were compressing growth and gross margins in recent quarters and this year. But can you comment a bit more on the competitive landscape in 2013 versus 2012? How has it surprised you? And what do you think the Company needs to do to reinvigorate your share gains across your key product categories?

TIM COOK: Bill, I think the smartphone market has always been competitive. The names have been changed, the names of the competitors have changed. In the beginning, RIM was the strongest player, because the smartphone, as you know, really got going in the enterprise area.

And of course today, our top competitor from a hardware point of view would be Samsung, married to Google on the operating system side. They're obviously tough competitors, but we feel that we have the best products, by far. And we are continuing to invest in innovative products, and feel really confident about our product pipeline in both hardware, software and also services. We have the best ecosystem by far. And we're just going to keep augmenting it and making it better and better. And that shows up in both our loyalty ratings and our customer sat. So, I feel very good about our competitive position.

BILL SHOPE: One more question, if I may. Can you comment on how you're thinking about the pace of your buyback program? And what factors are you going to consider to determine purchase timing over the next few years?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Bill, it's Peter. I'll take that. We're going to begin buying shares under the authorization beginning this month. We expect to utilize the remaining $58 billion under the authorization by the end of calendar year 2015, which spans 32 months from now. We expect to use accelerated share repurchase programs and to buy in the open market.

BILL SHOPE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Milunovich, UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Tim, you alluded to fall announcements of products. Is that indicating that there may not be substantial new products until literally fall, late September? Which means the September quarter could look a lot like the June quarter? Is that part of what you're implying? Or were you just being more general?

TIM COOK: I don't want to be more specific. But I'm just saying we've got some really great stuff coming in the fall and across all of 2014.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. And then could you talk a bit about the supply chain? There's been some concern with some of the product limitations late last year. It's got to be getting so huge relative to what you used to run. But what's your confidence level in the supply chain, particularly as you're potentially moving to new types of vendors over time as the units continue to increase?

TIM COOK: I have incredible confidence. We exited the March quarter with no shortages, while achieving inventory turns of over 90. wWhich is still to this day staggering for an industry. The December quarter that you're referring to was the largest quarter ever in the history of Apple and the technology industry as a whole. And, as you know, it include for us a number of new products, an unprecedented number, and of new product ramps.

The reality is the work we do to produce truly innovative product is very hard. And there have always been challenges, and I'm sure we'll face some in the future. However, I would assure you that we are working very closely with our manufacturing partners to execute what we feel is a very exciting road map.

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I wanted to revisit the gross margin question. And specifically, I was hoping you could comment on whether you feel you're experiencing the normal kinds of experience curves or declining cost curves that you do in typical product ramps. And whether you could comment on the sequential decline in iPhone ASPs, which were down nearly $30 sequentially. I presume that reflects a mix of 4 and 4S relative to the 5. But perhaps you can confirm that and what its impact might have on gross margins and how we should think about that? And I have a follow-up, please.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Toni, it's Peter. I'll take your first two. We're very pleased with the progress that we're making on getting down cost curves. And this will help to partially offset the loss of leverage and the different product mix that we expect to see in the June quarter, and we have factored these cost improvements into the guidance we're providing for the quarter.

The iPhone ASPs were down sequentially about $28, as you noted. And this was driven primarily by mix. The largest factors were an increase in the iPhone 4 mix, which resulted from our making the iPhone 4 more affordable in many markets, and also mix within the iPhone 5 as it was in its second full quarter.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And its impact on margins? How do we think about relative margins for 4 relative to 5, on balance? Toni, we don't provide margins by product or within product lines. But I talked about two factors that were impacting gross margin on a sequential basis. The first is leverage. And that's the largest of the two on the lower sequential revenue. But we also expect to see a different product mix, and that's primarily related to iPhone.

TIM COOK: Toni, just one other point on that. As you get further -- we see this on most of our product lines -- as you get further from a previous product launch, there's a general, within a line, a general lower mix than where it starts. And so, all things being equal, you'd expect to see that on most of our products.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. Thank you. Tim, I wanted to follow-up with you on a statement you made in a previous response. You talked earlier about how you were excited about the large addressable markets that you have, particularly the smartphone and tablet marketplaces. And you talked about how strongly and confidently you feel about competitive advantages in your products and ecosystems.

If I step back and look at the data for this quarter on the phone side, if I adjust for inventory the iPhone was up very low to mid single digits. I think most third-party market data would say that the smartphone market probably grew about 30%. And if I look broadly incorporating your guidance for next quarter, and thinking about fiscal Q1, it appears very unlikely that Apple will grow at that market rate of 30% or more.

So I'm wondering if you could comment on, A, whether that ostensible loss in market share is something that Apple is focused on or cares about as a principal financial objective. And if so, why do you think there is this disconnect between the very attractive products that you are offering and the market data that I just cited?

TIM COOK: Toni, let me try to address. You mentioned both smartphones and tablets. So let me try to address both of those. First, let me start with the tablet side. The numbers that we've seen from IDC would indicate that they believe the market in March declined by 30% from December. December being, obviously, a seasonally high quarter with a holiday. As you can see from our numbers, we declined 15%.

And, so, if that holds, we did much better than the market and had a very nice pickup in market share. And obviously on iPad, we continue to have an ecosystem story that is unparalleled. We have 350,000 apps that are optimized for iPad versus a few hundred for our competition. And the overall experience in the fit and finish of the product, I think you would agree, is substantially better than the options there.

On the phone side, the numbers that you talked about, the sell-in comparisons year over year, you really have to convert them to sell-through to look at the underlying demand. And as I've gone through before, we did grow channel inventory in the year-ago quarter because we were catching up on the rollout of the iPhone 4S. In fact, we grew it by 2.6 million. And so you have to factor in to get at the real sell-through.

However, I take your point. If the market did grow by 30%, we still, after that normalization, we grew less than that. And so I think the question, or the point is not lost. And we do want to grow faster. We don't view it, however, as the only measure of our health.

The things that are very important to us, in addition to market share and unit volumes, include things like customer sat, which were the highest by far, winning JD Powers nine times consecutively, the customer loyalty and repurchase rates, which were the highest by far, the 95% according to Kantar, and the ecosystem commerce which attracts developers is incredible. Canalys says that we have 74%. So basically $3 out of $4 that are spent on apps are spent in our ecosystem. And if you then looked at usage statistics, they're staggering at the usage of iOS versus other operating systems.

And so, market share's important, and unit volumes are important. But these other things for us are extremely important, because we're all about customer experience and enriching lives. Now, that said, we see an enormous number of first-time smartphone buyers coming to market, particularly in certain countries around the world.

And so, what we've done with that, and we started last quarter, is we've made the iPhone 4 even more affordable, which has made it more attractive to first-time buyers. And we caught up on our supply demand toward late in the quarter last quarter. And we're continuing to do that in other markets. And we believe that the phone for the price point that we're offering is an incredible value for people, that allows them to get into the ecosystem with a really phenomenal product.

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Tim and Peter, can you comment on gross margin beyond next quarter, maybe? What does it say about long-term gross margins if 36% to 37% is the margin that you're calling for, when your highest margin product, let's hope, is at a trough for the year? And I think you're implying that, when you say all these new products are coming in the fall. Is there an implied margin philosophy here with this 2Q guide that 36% is as low as you want it to get, and that maybe it gets better from there? Or is there nothing that we should imply in terms of how the Company views gross margins?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, it's Peter. I'll start on that one. As has been our long-term practice, we're not providing specific gross margin guidance beyond the June quarter. We don't do this because there are many factors that can influence gross margins in a specific quarter and cause them to vary widely over time, including product cycles, commodity markets, product mix, and currencies. So, while we don't want to make a forecast beyond June, let me tell you how we think about gross margin, and hopefully this will help.

We are managing the business for the long term and are willing to trade off short-term profits where we see long-term potential. The iPod is a great example of this. When we launched it in 2001, its margins were significantly below the margins of Apple at that time. Four years later, the iPod and the iTunes Music Store comprised 50% of Apple's revenues and inspired us to build the iPhone.

The iPad Mini is another great example. We have priced it aggressively and its margins are significantly below the corporate average. However, we believe deeply in the long-term potential of the tablet market and think that we've made a great strategic decision. We'll only make great products, and this precludes us from making cheap products that don't deliver a great experience. We believe deeply that there are people in every part of the world that want great products.

Looking back over the last several years, we've made very good business decisions, balancing units, revenues and the bottom line. We think about all three. And, as I said, we're willing to make short-term trade-offs in profits where we see long-term potential. And we're managing Apple with a very long-term horizon.

Some of our revenues and profits occur after we ship our products. We were thrilled to exceed this quarter $4 billion in revenue for our services for the first time. And, as Tim mentioned, we will augment our very strong ecosystem with new services, and make the current ones even better. So, we remain very confident in our strategy. And we will use our world-class skills in engineering and operations to manage our Business well in the future.

BEN REITZES: All right. Thanks. And, Tim, my follow-up is for you. Just asking you this every quarter in different ways, but I just wanted to get your reaction to what you thought of the 5-inch phone market at this time versus three months ago. And if anything has changed in your view as to that market and its place in the smartphone world versus your 4-inch product. And that's it for me.

TIM COOK: Ben, that's a good question. My view continues to be that iPhone 5 has the absolute best display in the industry. And we always strive to create the very best display for our customers. Some customers value large screen size. Others value also other factors, such as resolution, color quality, white balance, brightness, reflectivity, screen longevity, power consumption, portability, compatibility with apps. Many things. Our competitors have made some significant trade-offs in many of these areas in order to ship a larger display. We would not ship a larger display iPhone while these trade-offs exist. Does that answer your question?

BEN REITZES: Yes. Got it.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Tim, I just wanted to confirm, did you mention in your prepared remarks that you're thinking about new product categories? Or did I not hear you correctly?

TIM COOK: I did, Gene. I said that one of our areas for growth are potential new categories. And we're very excited about those.

GENE MUNSTER: And that would presumably be in the next year?

TIM COOK: I didn't announce a specific time frame.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And Peter, you mentioned new services and that you can build and improve on existing services. Beyond just the natural evolution of Maps and iCloud, are there any other key assets that you guys have which you can leverage into new services?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Nothing specific, Gene, but we are very fortunate to have the largest and broadest ecosystem in the world. We have app stores in 155 countries and iTunes stores in over 110 countries. We have hundreds of millions of users. We've just crossed a $16 billion run rate on the iTunes stores in terms of billings and just achieved for the first time $4 billion in revenue for our services. So we're really thrilled with what we've just reported this quarter, but we see opportunity that we're going to invest in tremendously to delight our customers and continue to grow our business in those areas.

TIM COOK: I would just add to that. Because we are not fragmented like our competition, we can update an OS with a major release, and a substantial percentage of our customers will update to our latest software. We've made that very elegant and very easy. Also, because the usage for iOS is so much higher, when we integrate things well, people use them a lot more. And so, just those concepts by itself are huge advantages from a customer experience point of view and from more the metrics that you're thinking about point of view.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Let me ask it this way. In terms of just the payments market specifically, do you feel that that market is well addressed today with the offerings out there?

TIM COOK: I think it's in its infancy, Gene. I think it's just getting started. And just out of the starting block.

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Tim, I was wondering if you could talk a bit about what you're thinking about within the Mac market and the PC market. Because, obviously, you outperformed substantially the competition, but we're still down about 2%. So, I'm curious as to whether or not you think elasticity of demand with lower prices, or what you're hearing from your customers in terms of their reluctance to buy a new Mac. And then also, how you're thinking about the cannibalization potential coming out of the iPad?

TIM COOK: Shannon, I think the reason that we were down last quarter, we were down 2%, as you had mentioned -- the market for PCs are incredibly weak. IDC said that the market for the March quarter was down 14% year on year, which is the largest decline that I remember from being in this industry for a long time. At the same time, we sold almost 20 million iPads. And it's certainly true that some of those iPads cannibalized some Macs. I personally don't think it was a huge number. But I do think it's some. And I think probably the larger thing, at least for the -- maybe not so much on the Mac side but on the PC side, is people are probably extending their upgrade cycles.

That said, I don't think this market is a dead market or a bad market, by any means. I think it has a lot of life to it. We're going to continue to innovate in it. We believe that, if anything, the huge growth in tablets may wind up benefiting the Mac, because it pushes people to think about that product they're buying in a different manner. And people may be even more willing to buy a Mac, where today they may be buying a PC.

And so we're going to continue making the best personal computers. Our strategy is not changing. And we feel really good about it. We delivered some incredible innovation last year with the Retina Display with the MacBook Pro. And in an incredible thin and light package. And we've got some more great stuff planned. So, this is an area we're continuing to invest in.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. And then just a follow-up question with regards to the tablet market. We've met with some of your competitors recently and they're starting to talk about wins in the enterprise. And touting the benefits of Microsoft and some of the other OSs that are out there in terms of security and interoperability in some of the enterprise companies. So, I'm curious what you've heard from your customers. Have you seen much displacement? And what are the discussions that you have with enterprise customers with regard to iPads and fitting into their systems? Thanks.

TIM COOK: We seem to be doing really well. Peter had referenced earlier the Good Technology's data that says that iOS accounted for 77% of all their activations by their corporate customers. Now, that would not include BlackBerry, but it would include all the other guys. And, so, we seem to be doing really well.

And, honestly, I don't see the recent announcements changing that at all. I see more and more people developing more and more custom apps for their businesses on iOS to be used on iPad. And we're very bullish on it. As a matter of fact, just to quote you some numbers, iPad now is being used in 95% of the Fortune 500. And what's even more impressive, probably, is on the global 500 companies, we're now in 89%.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Tim, earlier you talked about how the December quarter had a very big and broad product refresh. Were there any learning points from that experience, in terms of maybe it's better to stage or stagger out launches over multi quarters versus one quarter? How should we think about that going forward?

TIM COOK: That's a good question. I don't spend a lot of time looking back except to learn from it. If we could run it over, frankly, I would have announced the iMac after the turn of the year. Because we felt our customers had to wait too long for that specific product. Where the iPad Mini was in shortage in the quarter, in the December quarter.

I would not have done that differently, because we were able to get the iPad Mini out to many millions of customers who really wanted that product for their holiday. And so, yes, we did do a lot. Our teams, fortunately, can do a lot. But, in retrospect, that one, yes, I sort of wish it were after the turn of the year because our customers would not have had to wait as long as they did.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. And my follow-up question is back to the ecosystem. Are there other metrics or mile posts that you can share with us? You acknowledged earlier that the growth of revenue at Apple has slowed for some of your key products. But how about the ecosystem in terms of usage rates? Are you seeing slowing there or are you actually seeing the opposite where there's maybe acceleration within each user?

TIM COOK: We see incredible usage in every study that we see. These aren't just done by us. As a matter of fact, the vast majority of them come from other people. The usage of iOS devices are staggering compared to others. It's a phenomenal difference. And I think that shows the strength of the ecosystem.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And, Mark, it's Peter. I will add that we are now paying very happily our developers more than $1 billion every quarter.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store, the webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 2954408. And these replays will be available at approximately 6.00 PM today, Pacific Time.

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. And Joan is at 408-974-4570. And I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i3302 : Computers/Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130430e94n007hh
  


 HD
 Q1  2013 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,788 words
   PD
23 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated first quarter fiscal-year 2013 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Speaking today are Apple CEO Tim Cook, and CFO Peter Oppenheimer, and they will be joined by Treasurer Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, Other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2012, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim Cook for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thanks, Nancy, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. We are incredibly pleased to report an extraordinary quarter, with $54.5 billion in revenue, and new records for iPhone and iPad sales. No technology company has ever reported these kind of results. Apple is in one of the most prolific periods of innovation in new products in its history. Just in the last few months, we've introduced new products in every category that we made. Each one of these reflects our dedication to making the very best products in the world. At Apple, we think about the smallest details, and we're unwilling to cut corners in delivering the best customer experience in the world. This relentless commitment to innovation and excellence is the reason our customers choose to buy our products, and this will always be the driving force behind Apple.

Apple today is over 80,000-people strong, and we are one team working together to surprise and delight our customers. Part of my job is to preserve our culture and drive it forward so we remain the world's most innovative company. People join Apple to do the very best work of their lives, and there's no greater reward than seeing how customers love to use our products. We continue to believe that our fundamentals, our remarkable people, our clear and focused strategy, our new product pipeline, our booming ecosystem, and more than 400 Apple retail stores, will serve us well in the coming months and years ahead.

Tomorrow marks the anniversary of a revolution. On January 24, 1984, Steve introduced the first Macintosh right here at a shareholder meeting in Cupertino. On the evening news that night, they said it was supposed to be one of the easiest computers to use, and thanks to the new mouse, you hardly had to touch the keyboard. We've come a long way since 1984, but we rely on the same spirit and drive that brought the original Mac and other revolutionary products like the iPod, the iPhone, and the iPad into the world.

You're going to hear a lot of impressive numbers during this call, but they're not the only way that we measure success at Apple. The most important thing to us is that our customers love our products. Not just buy them, but love them. Everyone here is laser-focused on creating an unprecedented customer experience. We've now sold well over 0.5 billion iOS devices, including a staggering 10 per second last quarter alone. We couldn't have achieved these milestones without the very best products in the world, and unmatched execution by our engineering, operations, and sales teams to deliver so many innovative and beautifully designed products. It's simply phenomenal.

Everyone at Apple has their eyes on the future, a future driven by the incredible hard work and dedication by the most talented and creative team on earth, who all share a common purpose of continuing to create the world's best products, and in doing so, enrich the lives of our customers. Today, we are proud to share with you our latest results. Peter will review the highlights of our Q1 earnings, and I'll be back for the Q&A.

Peter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP - FINANCE & CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thanks, Tim. We're very pleased to report the results of Apple's first fiscal quarter. We established new all-time quarterly records for iPhone and iPad sales, significantly broadened our ecosystem, and generated Apple's highest quarterly revenue and net income ever. Revenue for the quarter was $54.5 billion compared to $46.3 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of $8.2 billion year over year. As a reminder, our first quarter this fiscal year spanned 13 weeks, whereas the first quarter last year included a 14th week. As such, average weekly revenue was $4.2 billion in the current-year quarter compared to $3.3 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 27%.

The strong year-over-year growth was fueled by record iPhone, iPad, and iTunes sales. Operating margin was $17.2 billion, representing 31.6% of revenue. Net income was a record $13.1 billion, just ahead of the amount generated in last year's 14-week quarter, and translated to diluted earnings per share of $13.81.

Beginning this fiscal year, we are reorganizing the presentation of our results to provide greater transparency. First, we have established the new operating segment of Greater China, given the very significant contribution of that region to our overall business. We define Greater China to include Mainland China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan.

Second, for segment reporting purposes, we are allocating certain manufacturing costs and variances, including costs related to product tooling and manufacturing process equipment to our operating segments, instead of including these expenditures in corporate expenses, as we've done in the past. We've recast our operating income for each quarter in fiscal 2011 and 2012 to reflect this change, and have provided a reconciliation on Apple.com/investor. These changes have no impact on overall reported operating income.

And third, we have realigned the presentation of product information in our summary data schedule to provide greater visibility to revenue by product category. Under this new format, revenue from iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod sales is presented exclusive of related service and accessory revenue. All revenue from iTunes, standalone Apple, and third-party software and services is presented as a single line item, and revenue from all Apple and third-party accessory sales is presented as a single line item. We believe this presentation provides a logical grouping of revenue sources, and also provides greater transparency into our results.

As for the details of this quarter, I'd like to begin with iPhone. We were very pleased to sell 47.8 million iPhones, compared to 37 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of over 10 million iPhones. This represents a rate of almost 3.7 million iPhones per week in the current-year quarter, compared to 2.6 million per week in the year-ago quarter. That's an average increase of 39% per week, consistent with IDC's latest published forecast for the global smartphone market in the December quarter.

And on a sequential basis, iPhone sales grew 78% over the September quarter's results. That's over 3.5 times IDC's latest published projection for sequential growth of the overall market, resulting in iPhone market share growth.

We experienced strong iPhone growth in each of our geographic segments, most notably Greater China, where iPhone sales more than doubled year over year. In the US, Kantar Worldpanel ComTech estimates that iPhone's share of smartphone sales increased from 45% in the year-ago quarter to over 51% in the current-year quarter. iPhone sales were driven by the tremendous popularity of iPhone 5, which we are extremely proud to have launched in 100 countries by the end of December, resulting in the fastest iPhone rollout ever. We ended the quarter with about 10.6 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 1.5 million iPhones, and ended the quarter within our targeted range of four to six weeks of iPhone channel inventory on a look-forward basis.

While other mobile devices and operating systems face increasing security risks and fragmented inconsistent user experiences, iPhone and iOS continue to deliver an exceptional experience that people love. They also provide a secure and trusted ecosystem that IT departments require. iPhone continues to be embraced by government agencies, and businesses across the globe. Many US government agencies are issuing iPhones by the thousands as part of their new mobile strategies. Some examples include NASA, the National Oceanic Atmospheric Association, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and the Transportation Security Administration.

We are also seeing continued iPhone growth in business across the board, from companies replacing existing smartphone deployments to businesses adding first-time smartphone users. Companies around the world like Neiman Marcus, Skanska, and Volvo, are issuing iPhones to their employees to improve interactions with customers, and give workers access to essential corporate data.

Turning to iPad, we were thrilled to sell 22.9 million iPads during the quarter, compared to 15.4 million in the year-ago quarter. That translates to over 1.7 million iPads per week in the current-year quarter compared to 1.1 million per week in the year-ago quarter, an average increase of 60% per week, ahead of IDC's latest published estimate of 56% growth for the tablet market. Customers are loving the fourth-generation iPad, with its faster performance and spectacular Retina display. And the iPad Mini has been a tremendous hit, offering the full iPad experience in an incredible design that you can hold in one hand.

In addition to the tremendous response from consumers, iPad continues to be the tablet of choice for businesses and government agencies, transforming the way their employees work. Financial institutions like Barclays, Nomura Securities, and Bank of Beijing are deploying iPads to enable employees to better service customers, and work securely with financial portfolios and products. In particular, Barclays' rollout of over 8,000 iPads has generated tremendous employee engagement and feedback, making it the most successful IT deployment in Barclays' history.

State and local governments in the United States are also rapidly adopting iPad. Court systems, county inspectors, and law enforcement agencies use iPad to streamline processes, and replace huge amounts of paper. And state legislatures in Virginia, Texas, and West Virginia are all using iPads to give lawmakers instant access to government documents and information. Outside the US, 10,000 iPads are being deployed as part of broad adoption of a local government workflow solution in Sweden, and over 5,000 iPads have been purchased by the government in the Netherlands for the Dutch Tax Authority and the Dutch Court System.

We began and ended the quarter with about 3.4 million iPads in channel inventory. That left us below our target range of four to six weeks of iPad channel inventory on a look-forward basis.

Turning to Mac, we sold 4.1 million units in the quarter compared to 5.2 million in the year-ago quarter. That's an average of about 312,000 Macs per week in the current-year quarter, compared to 371,000 per week in the year-ago quarter, a decline of 16%. IDC estimates the global personal computer market contracted by 6% during the December quarter. We introduced the new 13-inch MacBook Pro Retina display, as well as our stunning new iMacs in October. As we projected a quarter ago, we were significantly constrained with respect to the new iMacs, and were only able to ship them for the final month of the December quarter. We believe our Mac sales would have been much higher, absent those constraints.

We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory on a look-forward basis, which is below our target range of four to five weeks.

Moving to iPod, we sold 12.7 million iPods compared to 15.4 million in the year-ago quarter. iPod Touch was a popular item in the holiday season, and continued to account for over 50% of all iPods sold during the December quarter. iPod's share of the US market for MP3 players was over 70% in the December quarter, based on the latest data published by NPD, and iPod continued to be the top selling MP3 player in most countries we track, based on the latest data published by GfK.

iTunes generated record results, with revenue of $2.1 billion in the quarter. We established new all-time quarterly records for revenue from music, from movies, and from apps. We significantly expanded the footprint of our ecosystem during the quarter, adding iTunes Music Stores in 56 countries, including Russia, Turkey, India, and South Africa. That brings us to a total of 119 countries where customers can choose from over 20 million songs to purchase and download.

The App Store had a record-breaking December quarter, with over 2 billion downloads in the month of December alone. The App Store now offers more than 775,000 apps to over 0.5 billion account holders in 155 countries, including over 300,000 native iPad apps. Cumulative app downloads have now surpassed 40 billion, and we are delighted to have paid our app developers over $7 billion for sales of their incredible work. iCloud continues to grow at an amazing rate, now with 250 million accounts, and our customers love our iMessage service, sending a staggering 2 billion-plus iMessages per day.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue was at an all-time high of over $6.4 billion, with growth fueled primarily by record iPhone and iPad sales. We opened a total of 11 new stores during the quarter, including 4 new stores in greater China. We exited the quarter with 401 stores, 150 of which are outside the United States. We also relocated or expanded 14 stores that had outgrown their former space during the quarter.

With an average of 396 stores open, average revenue per store was $16.3 million, or $1.25 million per store per week, compared to $1.22 million per store per week in the year-ago quarter. Retail segment income was $1.6 billion. We hosted a record 121 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, compared to 110 million in the year-ago quarter. That translates to 23,000 visitors per store per week, a 7% increase year over year.

Total Company gross margin was 38.6%, which was about 260 basis points higher than our guidance. About 50% of this difference was driven by lower product and transitory costs that we reflected in our guidance, while the remainder resulted from a higher mix of iPhones, a weaker US dollar, and leverage on the higher revenue. Operating expenses were $3.9 billion, and included $460 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $462 million, and the tax rate for the quarter was 26%.

Turning to cash, our cash plus short-term and long-term marketable securities totaled $137.1 billion at the end of the December quarter, compared to $121 billion at the end of the September quarter, a sequential increase of almost $16 billion. The increase in cash was net of $2.5 billion in dividends paid, and $2 billion in an upfront payment in conjunction with our accelerated share repurchase program. Over $94 billion of our total cash was offshore at the end of the December quarter. Cash flow from operations was a record $23.4 billion, growing by almost $6 billion year over year, a 33% increase. Our Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $2.65 per common share, payable on February 14, 2013 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 11, 2013.

As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. In addition to the reporting changes that I've already mentioned, to further increase transparency into our business, we are changing our approach to how we provide guidance. In recent years, our guidance reflected a conservative point estimate of results every quarter that we had reasonable confidence in achieving. Going forward, we plan to provide a range of guidance that reflects our belief of what we are likely to achieve. While we cannot forecast with complete accuracy, we believe we are likely to report within the range of guidance we provide.

Therefore, for the March quarter, we are providing revenue guidance of between $41 billion and $43 billion, compared to $39.2 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 37.5% and 38.5%, reflecting approximately $90 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be between $3.8 billion and $3.9 billion, including about $480 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $350 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26%.

In closing, we're thrilled to have generated over $54 billion of revenue in a 13-week period, while executing multiple major product transitions. We sold over 75 million iOS devices during the quarter, which is a staggering number. We're producing our best products ever, and the execution by our engineering, operations, and sales teams to deliver tens of millions of such innovative, beautifully designed products in such a short timeframe is phenomenal. We're very pleased with our record iPhone and iPad sales, our record music, movie, and app sales, and the continued expansion of our robust ecosystem. And finally, we remain very confident in our new product pipeline.

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter. We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question will come from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATHRYN HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: It's clear that iPhone 5 did incredibly well in the US, based on the carryover to date, but international sell-through data points have been more mixed. How would you characterize trends outside the US for iPhone, and are you confident that you have all the right price points and screen sizes to fully capture the non-US demand for iPhone, specifically?

TIM COOK: Katy, it's Tim. As Peter said, sequentially, we increased over 70% from the September quarter, which was 3.5 times market, and so we could not be happier with that. In terms of the geographic distribution, we saw our highest growth in China, and it was into the triple digits, which was higher than the market there, and so I would characterize it as, we're extremely pleased.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: And then maybe a question for Peter, with such a large cash generation again this quarter and confidence in the product pipeline, you made those comments, and a stock price that is off its highs, why not step up and buy back even more stock than you had originally planned at this point?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: This is something that we continue continuously assess, the opportunities to both invest in the business and return cash. We are pleased to have started our share repurchase program this quarter, and combined with our dividend, we returned about $4.5 billion of cash this quarter, and we started the buyback program and expect to return about $45 billion over three years to our shareholders. We do consider increasing these programs, and we'll do what we think is in the best interest of our shareholders.

KATY HUBERTY: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Katy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Goldman Sachs, we'll hear from Bill Shope.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Katy had alluded to this, many of your smartphone competitors are now focusing on differentiating themselves with larger screen sizes than that of the iPhone 5 and your predecessor products. How do you think about the competitive dynamics of the market right now in that respect? Do you think that's a valid point of differentiation, and do you think there's a long-term case for a larger screen size, or at least a larger variety of screen sizes for iPhones and for the smartphone category in general?

TIM COOK: Bill, it's Tim. The iPhone 5 offers, as you know, a new 4-inch Retina display, which is the most advanced display in the industry, and no one comes close to matching the level of quality as the Retina display. It also provides a larger screen size for iPhone customers without sacrificing the one-handed ease of use that our customers love. So we've put a lot of thinking into screen size, and believe we picked the right one.

BILL SHOPE: I guess shifting onto the question on iPhone demand, obviously you saw healthy growth in the key categories this quarter, but in the context of your guidance, can you give us some color about how you're viewing end-demand trends for the iPhone coming out of the December quarter, and how that compares to what you consider to be normal seasonality at this point in the product cycle? And also, did you see any meaningful deterioration in iPhone demand at the end of the December quarter, or thus far in the March quarter, that would lend credence to some near-term conservatism?

TIM COOK: Bill, let me take the second half of that, and then I'll hand it to Peter for the first half. If you look at the iPhone sales across the quarter, we were very constrained for much of the quarter on iPhone 5. As we began to produce more and ship more, sales went up with the production. iPhone 4 was actually in constraint for the entire quarter, and sales remained strong, and so that's how sales progressed across the quarter. I'll let Peter talk about the guidance.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: So, Bill, for iPhone, as we told you last year, we built about 2.6 million units of channel inventory in the March quarter, which allowed us at that time to get into our four to six week inventory target. So the underlying sell-through was about 32.5 million, and we would expect sell-through growth year-over-year, as it has -- in the quarter, as it has for many quarters in a row.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Thank you.

TIM COOK: Bill, let me make one additional point on this. I know there's been lots of rumors about order cuts and so forth, and so let me just take a moment to make a comment on these. I don't want to comment on any particular rumor, because I would spend my life doing that, but I would suggest it's good to question the accuracy of any kind of rumor about build plans. And also, stress that even if a particular data point were factual, it would be impossible to accurately interpret the data point, as to what it meant for our overall business, because the supply chain is very complex, and we obviously have multiple sources for things.

Yields might vary. Supplier performance can vary. The beginning inventory positions can vary. There's just an inordinately long list of things that would make any single data point not a great proxy for what's going on.

BILL SHOPE: That's helpful. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Sanford Bernstein, we'll go to Toni Sacconaghi.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I just wanted to make sure that I fully understand your comments about guidance, and the new guidance range that you're providing. Are you effectively saying that when you provided guidance before, it was uniquely conservative, and that level of conservatism no longer exists? We're actually getting the real planning range for Apple, and that this is fundamentally different from how you approached and provided guidance?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Toni, it's Peter. In the past, we provided a single point estimate of guidance that was conservative, that we had reasonable confidence in achieving. This quarter, and going forward, we're going to provide a range of guidance that we believe that we are likely to report within. No guarantees, forecasting is difficult. But we believe that we will report within that range.

TONI SACCONAGHI: So I'm just comparing the words. So you think you will report in the range before -- I think on average, eclipsed your guidance by on EPS by 35%. Was the guidance before something that you felt reasonably confident in achieving, or was there an implicit buffer in there? Because I'm trying to reconcile the fact that you said you thought it was reasonable before, but your historical precedent was, you eclipsed it enormously on an ongoing basis. And this time, you're saying there's a high likelihood of falling within the range. And I want to understand the distinction.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll go through it again. In the past, we give you a single point estimate of guidance. It was conservative, that we had as reasonable confidence as you can have, that we would achieve. We're now providing you a range of guidance that we expect to -- as best we can -- report within.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. And then if I could follow-up, Tim, you started the call talking about Apple's philosophy of really ensuring that you satisfy your customers, and making great products. Against that backdrop, how important is market share preservation? This quarter, you held share, maybe increased it fractionally on a year-over-year basis on the global smartphone market, but clearly you had an exciting new product. Is holding share in the smartphone market in 2013 a priority for Apple? Yes or no and why? And realistically, how does Apple hold share, given that the market segment and price point that you play in is expected to grow a lot slower, and you have pretty dominant share in that high end?

TIM COOK: Toni, the most important thing to Apple is to make the best products in the world, that enrich customers' lives. So that's our high order -- that means that we aren't interested in revenue for revenue's sake. We could put the Apple brand on a lot of things, and sell a lot more stuff, but that's not what we're here for. We want to make only the best product. And so what does that mean for market share? We've been able to do that -- I think we've had a great track record here on iPod, doing different products at different price points, and getting a reasonable share from doing that. And so, I wouldn't view the things as mutually exclusive as some might, but the high order bit is making a great product, that enriches customers' lives. So that's what we're focused on.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Barclays, we'll go to Ben Reitzes.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: First question is with regards to Macs. Could you talk a little bit more about what happened, and it would seem that the shortfall there is well over $1 billion in the quarter, maybe even as much as $1.5 billion. And how much of that was pushed into the March quarter within that new March guidance? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Ben, it's Tim. Thanks for asking that question, I wanted to talk about this. I think the best way to answer this is, if you look at the previous year, our Mac sales were about 5.2 million. This year they were 4.1, ad so the difference is 1.1. So let me try to bridge that.

iMacs were down by 700,000 units year-over-year. As you remember, we announced the new iMacs late in October, and when we announced those, we announced that they would ship, the first one, the 21.5 inch, would ship in November, and we did ship it at the end of November. We announced that the 27-inch would ship in December and we did ship that in mid-December. And so there were limited weeks of ramping on these products during the quarter. We left the quarter with significant constraints on the iMac. And we believe, we know that our sales would have been materially higher if those constraints would not have existed. We tried to tell people this on the conference call in October. I think I said that we would have significant constraints on iMac, but so I recognize to some folks, this may be a surprise.

Number two, if you look at last year, as Peter went through in his opening comments, we had 14 weeks in the quarter. We had 13 weeks into the quarter this year. Last year, in the average week we sold 370,000 Macs. The third part of the bridge here would be that our channel inventory was down from the beginning of the quarter by over 100,000 units, and that's because obviously we didn't have the iMacs in channel inventory. It was in significant constraint. So if you just take these three factors, they bridge more than the difference of between this year's sales and last year's sales.

So now in addition to these three points, I would point out two other things. And these are lesser things than the total of these other three obviously. One, the market for PCs is week. IDC's last estimate, I believe, was around negative 6%. Two, we sold 23 million iPads. And we obviously could have sold more than this, because we could not build enough iPad minis to come into a demand balance. And so we've always said there's some cannibalization there. I'm sure there was some cannibalization in Macs there.

But the three large factors or the aggregated total of the three large, the iMac, the difference in seven days of the previous year, having seven extra days in the channel inventory, I think more than explains the difference between this year and the previous year. As a side note, if you look at our portables alone, they were in line with IDC's projections of market growth.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thanks a lot, Tim. And just my follow-up is with regard to Web services, online services, there's been a lot of publicity around Maps and can you give us an update there? And then looking forward, how does the year look in terms of innovation in terms of iOS 7 and your online and web services? How will that drive Apple?

TIM COOK: Well, let me start with the second part of this. We're working on some incredible stuff. The pipeline is chock-full. I don't want to comment about a specific product, but we feel great about what we've got in store. In terms of Maps, we've made a number of improvements to Maps since the introduction of iOS 6 back in September. And we'll roll out even more improvements across the rest of the year. And we're going to keep working on this, as I've said before, until it lives up to our you currently high standards.

Users can already see many of these improvements, because they include things like improved satellite and wireless imagery, improved categorization, improved local information for thousands of businesses, and so forth. The usage in Maps is significantly higher than it was prior to iOS 6. In terms of other services, we feel fantastic about how we're doing. In notification center, we've now sent over 4 trillion notifications. This is mind-blowing. As Peter mentioned in his opening comments, for iMessage, we've now sent over 450 billion, and are currently sending over 2 billion per day. With GameCenter, we've got over 200 million registered users. We have a 800,000 apps on the App Store with over 40 billion downloads. And so I feel really, really great about it. There's obviously more stuff we can do and you can bet we're thinking about all of it.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Next, we'll go to Steve Milunovich with UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH , ANALYST, UBS: Could you review your comments about gross margin in the quarter? And also, looking ahead, perhaps commenting on a few areas, first of all where you are on your product cost curve relative to where you expected to be, and then also any comments on mix within the iPhone line in terms of 5 versus 4S, amount of storage, and then also on the iPad, last quarter you said you really didn't know what the proportion of minis would be. Can you make any comments in terms of the demand for mini relative to what you expected?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Steve, it's Peter, I'll start. I'll make a comment on mini, go through gross margin and maybe Tim can pick up on some of your iPhone questions. With the iPad mini, it's hard to know. We could not make enough in the quarter. We were constrained every week. Customers love the mini, and we wish that we could have made more, and we ended the quarter with significant backlog.

For the gross margin in the December quarter, we were about 260 basis points ahead of our guidance. About half this difference was driven by lower product and transitory cost, than we have reflected in our guidance, and the rest came from a higher mix of iPhones, a weaker dollar, and leverage on the higher revenue. As we look forward, we think the gross margin will be somewhere between about 10 basis points and 110 basis points lower sequentially. We believe that there are two primary factors that will benefit gross margin sequentially. First and the largest of the two, our teams have made meaningful progress in reductions in product and transitory costs from the actions that they've been working on to get down the cost curve, so we expect the benefit in the March quarter beyond what we saw in the December quarter. And second, we expect a more typical level of deferred revenue from device sales.

We expect these factors to be more than offset by 10 to 120 basis points, by the loss of her leverage coming out of the December quarter, which is very typical for us, and a different mix of our current products. And regarding mix as an example, as we indicated last quarter, the iPad mini gross margin is significantly below the corporate average, and we expect to be able to meet demand for this product in the March quarter, which again we could not in the December quarter.

TIM COOK: Steve, I'll make some comments on mix. Your question on iPhone mix, let me bring up three points. One, the ASP for iPhone was essentially the same year-over-year in the quarter that we just finished. Underneath that, if you looked at the mix of iPhone 5 to total iPhone, and then in the previous year you look at 4S to total iPhone, since it was the top iPhone, those mixes are similar. and then thirdly I think you asked about capacities. In Q1, we saw similar results as we saw in Q1 of the previous year. So does that answer your question on mix?

STEVE MILUNOVICH : Yes, it does. Thank you. Second question would be on CapEx. You spent almost as much as Intel does. I think you have said you're not going to become vertically integrated per se, but in a sense, you are, since most of that I assume is buying equipment for your partners. Can you talk about the strategy here and how much of a differentiator this gives Apple in terms of your ability to ramp new products over time? And maybe a little bit more about how deep you'll go in terms of semiconductor componentry, et cetera?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Steve, it's Peter. We expect to spend about $10 billion in CapEx this fiscal year. That will be up a little under $2 billion year-over-year. We expect to spend a little bit under $1 billion in the retail stores, and the other $9 billion is spent in a variety of areas. We're buying equipment that we will own, that we will put in partners' facilities. Our primary motivation there is for supply, but we get other benefits as well. We're also adding to our data center capabilities to support all the services that Tim spoke about in answering Ben's question and then facilities and infrastructure. So that's where the capital is going.

STEVE MILUNOVICH : Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Cross Research Group, we'll hear from Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Tim, can you talk a bit about what happened last year in terms of the refresh cycle, where you had about 80% of your revenue refresh in the last few months, and then how are you thinking about this year. I know you say ship products when they're ready, but is this a situation where you're going to try to stagger it out a little bit this year, or would be sort of a similar situation to 2012?

TIM COOK: That's a question I won't answer, Shannon. The 80% was an unusually high percentage for us. I don't know exactly what the historic numbers are on that, but I can tell you that the number of ramps were unprecedented, and the fact that we had new products in every category is something we have not done before. We feel great to have delivered so many products for the holiday season, and our customers have certainly expressed joy over it.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. I guess, can you talk a bit more about China? You provided -- which is great -- you have broken out the Greater China revenue, but can you talk about what you're hearing from customers and from some of your partners there? Your thoughts on retail distribution and expansion, and overall what you saw over the holiday period and then what you expect from China going forward?

TIM COOK: If you look at our total China, total Greater China which would include our retail stores that are in China, our revenues were $7.3 billion in the quarter, so it's incredibly high. It's over 60% year-on-year. And again, that's comparing 13 to 14 weeks. So it's really, the underlying growth is higher than that. We saw exceptional growth in iPhones, into the triple digits. iPad, we shipped iPad very late in the quarter in December, and despite that, saw very nice growth.

We are expanding in Apple retail there, in the year-ago quarter, we had six stores. We now have the 11. We obviously have many more to open there. In our premium resellers, we went over 400, up from a little over 200 in the previous year. And we increased iPhone point of sales from 7,000 to over 17,000 there.

And now, this isn't nearly what we need, and it's not the final by any means. We're not even close to that. But we're making -- I feel that we're making great progress. I was just over there recently, and talking to a lot of different people. I'm very happy with how things are going. It's clear that China -- it's already our second-largest region, as you can see from the data that we've given you, and it's clear there's a lot of potential there.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Tim, you made comments in the past that the Apple TV experience is dated and Apple wants to fix that problem. If we can take a step outside of the form factor debate, whether it's a box or a panel, can you just talk in high level how important this market is to Apple, number one? And number two is, can you accomplish what you ultimately want to accomplish with the reality of where content is today, and how content is distributed?

TIM COOK: Gene, you're asking me all the questions I don't want to answer but let me see if I can find some comments on want to make, that is productive. In terms of the hot we sell today, Apple TV, we sold more last quarter than we've ever sold before, eclipsing 2 million during the quarter. It was up almost 60% year on year. And so there's actually very, very good growth in that product. And what was a small niche at one time, of people that loved it, is a much larger number that love it. I have said in the past, this is an area of intense interest for us, and it remains that. And I tend to believe that there's a lot we can contribute in this space, and so we continue to pull the string and see where it leads us. But I don't want to be more specific.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And just a housekeeping for Peter, Peter, you gave gross margin guidance this quarter, but no EPS guidance. Is there any moving parts between the gross margin and the operating line that we should be aware of that might have account for that nuance on how you're giving guidance?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, Gene. Our prior method of providing guidance was a point estimate for each line item of the P&L, including EPS. And our guidance for the March quarter and how we will give guidance in the future, we're going to give a range for revenue for gross margin and for OpEx. Therefore, there are many possibilities for EPS within the range, that we'll leave you to think through, and we'll report our actual results from March to you in April.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Bank of Montreal, we'll go to Keith Bachman.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: The first one is, Tim, could you talk a little bit about the data, even if anecdotal, on how iPhone sales proceeded in terms of new customers versus upgrades? And how that compared to say, if you go to the 4S last year?

TIM COOK: I don't have those specific numbers in front of me, but the iPhone 5, obviously with the numbers that we're selling, and selling to a lot of new customers.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Because we had heard feedback that it was a lot more of an upgrade cycle to existing customers, but it sounds like it's not a statement you would agree with.

TIM COOK: I don't know who you were talking to. And so again, this is one of those things I would caution on using as a proxy for the world. There are many carriers created differently.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Well, let me turn to my next question, then. Peter, as we think about the March quarter, I'm a bit confused how to think about iPads. And you mentioned that iPad mini was constrained. Any kind of comments on what seasonality would be, and more importantly, how are you thinking about the aggregate amount of inventory that's in the channel for iPads? Will that amount increase, decrease or stay the same, as we reflect on how to model units in the March quarter?

TIM COOK: Keith, it's Tim. Let make a couple comments. iPad mini was very constrained. We ended with underneath our target channel inventory range, which Peter had commented earlier. We believe that we can achieve supply demand balance on iPad mini later this quarter. That would likely mean that we would need more units in the channel than we have today. I think that would be a fair conclusion to draw.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Keith, I will add to that. For total iPad sales, we don't provide a sub level forecast, but we would expect a large year-over-year increase in iPad sales, but a post-holiday sequential decline for iPad sales, which I think is typical. As Tim said, we expect to be able to meet demand for the mini.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thanks, guys. Good luck.

TIM COOK: It's worth pointing out just to be totally clear, for last quarter, we had strong sales of iPad and iPad mini.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. All right. Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Thanks much. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go to Scott Craig with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

SCOTT CRAIG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good afternoon. Tim, can you discuss the tablet market a little bit in relation to Macs and other PCs, and how you're thinking about the cannibalization of that market for the iPad relative to the PC market? Secondly, typically each quarter, you talk about some of the component constraints. And you certainly talked about iPhone 4 being constrained, and iPad mini, et cetera, so as you enter into the quarter, where do you see the challenges for meeting demand for the calendar first quarter? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Sure. Let me take the second part of that first. I think overall, our team did just a fantastic job ramping a record number of new products during the quarter. We did have significant shortages due to robust demand on both iPad mini and both models of the iMac, that persisted the entire quarter. And we are still short of both of those today, as a matter of fact. Additionally, supply of iPhone 5 was short to demand, until late in the quarter, and iPhone 4 was short for the entire quarter. We believe that we can achieve a supply demand balance on iPad mini during this quarter, and on iPhone 4 during this quarter. On iMac, we are confident that we're going to significantly increase the supply, but the demand here is very strong, and we are not certain that we'll achieve a supply-demand balance during the quarter.

In terms of cannibalization and how we think about this, I see cannibalization as a huge opportunity for us. One, our base philosophy is to never fear cannibalization. If we do, somebody else will just cannibalize it, and so we never fear it. We know that iPhone has cannibalized some iPod business, it doesn't worry is that it's done that. We know that iPad will cannibalize some Macs. That doesn't worry us.

On iPad in particular, we have the mother of all opportunities here, because the Windows market is much, much larger than the Mac market is, and I think it is clear that it's already cannibalizing some, and I think there's a tremendous amount more opportunity there. As you know, I've said for two or three -- actually three years now, I believe, that I believe the tablet market would be larger than the PC market at some point, and I still believe that. And you can see by the growth in tablets and the pressure on PCs that those lines are beginning to converge. And I think the other thing for us, maybe not for others but for us, is if somebody buys an iPad mini or an iPad, and it's their first Apple product, we have great experience through the years of knowing that when somebody buys their first Apple product, that a percentage of these people wind up buying another type of Apple product. And so if you remember what we had termed the halo effect for some time with the iPod, with the Mac, we're very confident that will happen. And we're seeing some evidence of that on the iPad, as well. And so I see cannibalization as a huge opportunity.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Scott. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: And we'll go to Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Question, Tim, around the iPhone. Peter gave us some transparency around the qualitative sequential year-over-year potential increases in the iPad for the March quarter. How should we think about the iPhone family set against that, in terms of year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter potential increases or decreases? And are there any sort of dynamics around a slower pace of LTE rollouts by the network carriers having an impact?

TIM COOK: The thing to consider on iPhone, Mark, is that in the year-ago quarter, we built 2.6 million units of channel inventory, because we did the -- one reason was that we did the China launch in the March quarter instead of in the previous quarter. And so the underlying sell-through from the year-ago quarter was 32.5. The sell-in was 35, as you can probably see on a sheet in front of you. And so, in thinking through the number of iPhones to predict, we looked at the 32.5 number as a baseline, and we clearly believe that we're going to grow year-over-year, but I don't want to be more specific than that because Peter is already giving you some top level guidance, and that's how -- we guide in the aggregate instead of at the product level.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. My follow-up is just around the pace of LTE build-out across the globe, either in Europe or parts of Asia. Have those slower than expected rollouts from the network perspective, has that had any sort of impact, you think on your iPhone sales velocity and could that change over the next 12 months, as you see LTE capacity become more available elsewhere?

TIM COOK: It's a good question. Today, we have 24 carriers around the world that provide LTE support for iPhone 5. And those are in countries like the US, Korea, the UK, Germany, Canada, Japan, Australia, and a few others. Next week, we're adding 36 more carriers for LTE support, and these carriers will be in countries that were currently not supporting LTE, so it will be LTE coverage now as of next week in Italy, Denmark, Finland, Switzerland, Philippines, also several Middle Eastern countries. And so if you look at the total of all of these, and the incremental subscribers that are in those countries, it's over 300 million. And so that's the next range of LTE rollouts that I'm pleased to tell you about today. Also, as you know iPhone 5 also supports other ultra fast networks, like HSPA-plus with downloads up to 42 Mps which is three times the speed of the iPhone 4S, so we feel very good about the situation that we're in, particularly with these adds next week.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Deutsche Bank, we'll go to Chris Whitmore.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just to follow-up on the iPhone question with respect to guidance, assuming there's some benefit from the Mac carryover effect and the iPad release, et cetera and adjusting for the inventory, it seems you're guiding to kind of mid-to high single digit year-on-year unit growth for the iPhone business from a sell-through standpoint. Is that the right ballpark we should be thinking about? And why the big deceleration from the 25%-plus weekly sales rate you quoted in your intro comments?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Chris, it's Peter. We're not going to talk about guidance in a specific product level, but let me give you some things we talked about in coming up with the range of $41 billion to $43 billion. That range is a 5% to 10% year-over-year increase, and there are a few factors that are impacting the year-over-year results, making the strong performance of the business a little bit harder to see, so let me point a few of these out. As we, first of all, as we talked about several times on the call, last year in the March quarter, we built 2.6 million units of iPhone channel inventory, which allowed us to get into our four to six week range. That increased the revenue in the year-ago quarter by $1.6 billion. And as Tim talked about, that was sell-in, that was not sell-through. We're thinking about the business on a sell-through basis. So don't lose sight of the $1.6 billion.

Second, the iPhone 5 rollout this year has been our fastest ever. We were selling in 100 countries by the end of December. Last year, we did not achieve this country distribution until the March quarter, which included China, that launched in January. Third, we made a very good strategic decision to introduce the iPad mini, which customers love, and to keep the price reduced, iPad 2 in the line. As a result of this, we saw a reduction in our iPad ASPs of about $101 year-over-year in the December quarter, and you can see that our iPad units grew faster than our iPad revenue, in the December quarter. We would expect iPad ASPs to be down quite a bit in the March quarter on a year-over-year basis for the same reasons. And then finally, the PC market grew 4% last year in the March quarter, and this year, IDC is projecting it to decline by 3%. So considering these factors, the underlying performance of the business is much stronger than the 5% to 10% year-over-year growth implies, and we remain very confident in our business and our new product pipeline.

CHRIS WHITMORE: For my follow-up, I wanted to come back to something Tim said earlier about not fearing cannibalization. I wanted to ask him, in context of your iPhone business, given the strength you're seeing at the low end of your product line, the iPhone 4 being stocked out during the quarter, there seems to be a lot of demand at lower price points for the iPhone. Why not get more aggressive at lower price stands and move downmarket in the iPhone business? Thanks.

TIM COOK: I'm not going to go into our pricing strategy, but we feel great about the opportunity of getting products to customers and a percentage of those buying other Apple products and we've obviously seen evidence of that through history and continue to see evidence of that today.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Chris. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are (888)203-1112 or (719)457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 1474555. These replays will be available by approximately 5.30 PM Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at (408)974-1896 and financial analysts can contact Joan Gruber or me with additional questions. Joan is at (408)974-4570 and I'm at (408)974-4520. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i7902 : Telecommunications | itech : Technology | i3302 : Computers/Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130206e91n005se
  


 HD
 Q4  2012 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,103 words
   PD
25 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated fourth quarter fiscal year 2012 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, IR CONTACT, APPLE INC: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by Apple CEO, Tim Cook, and Treasurer, Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2011, the Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal 2012, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates. And I'd now like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP OF FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're pleased to report the results of our fourth fiscal quarter. We established new September quarter records for iPhone, iPad and Mac unit sales, leading to our highest September quarter revenue and earnings ever.

Revenue for the quarter was $36 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 27%. That's a $7.7 billion increase over the prior September quarter's results, and was driven primarily by strong growth in iPhone and iPad sales. Operating margin was $10.9 billion, representing 30.4% of revenue. Net income was $8.2 billion, increasing 24% over the prior September quarter's result. The quarter's net income translated to diluted earnings per share of $8.67.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with our Mac products and services. We sold over 4.9 million Macs, establishing a new September quarter record. This represents 1% growth year-over-year, compared to IDC's latest published estimate of 8% contraction of the global personal computer market in the September quarter. Portable sales grew 9% year-over-year and represented an all time high of 80% of Mac unit mix, thanks to strong sales of MacBook Pro and MacBook Air. Earlier this week, we unveiled the stunning new design for iMac that packs high performance technology and a brilliant new display with reduced reflection into an incredibly sleek aluminum and glass enclosure. We also introduced an even thinner and lighter version of our most popular Mac, the 13-inch MacBook Pro, featuring a Retina display with over 4 million pixels, in all-flash storage. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory, which is below our target range of four to five weeks.

Moving to our music products, we sold 5.3 million iPods compared to 6.6 million in the year-ago quarter. iPod touch continued to account for over half of all iPods sold. iPod's share of the US market for MP3 players was over 70% in the September quarter, based on the latest data published by MPD, and iPod continued to be the top-selling MP3 player in most countries we track, based on the latest data published by GfK. We're very excited to be shipping our newest iPods as of two weeks ago. The new iPod touch is the thinnest iPod touch yet, comes in five great colors, and features a 4 inch Retina display, a 5 megapixel iSight camera, our powerful A5 chip and Siri. The new iPod nano is the thinnest iPod ever, featuring a 2.5-inch Multi-Touch display, convenient navigation buttons, and built-in Bluetooth for wireless listening. The nano comes in seven great new colors and we think our full range of iPods will make wonderful gifts this holiday season.

The iTunes store generated all-time record results, which revenue of almost $2.1 billion thanks to continued strong sales of music, apps and video. We look forward to launching the new iTunes, featuring a complete redesigned player, seamless integration with iCloud, and a new look for the iTunes Store. The new iTunes has a dramatically simpler and clearer interface, so customers' music, movie and TV purchases on any of their iOS devices or computers are conveniently displayed in their iTunes library, and are available whenever they want them.

I'd now like to turn to iPhone. We're very pleased to have sold 26.9 million iPhones, compared to 17.1 million in the previous September quarter. That represents 58% year-over-year growth compared to [IBC]'s latest published estimate of 45% growth for the smartphone market overall during the quarter. We launched iPhone 5 in nine countries on September 21, and 22 more countries on September 28, and demand has been phenomenal. Customers have responded tremendously to the iPhone 5's all-new thin and light design and beautiful new 4-inch Retina display, the powerful performance of the A6 chip, and the great new ultrafast wireless technology. Demand for iPhone 5 continues to out-strip supply, and we are working very hard to get more into customer's hands as quickly as possible. We ended the quarter with about $9.1 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 800,000 iPhones, and ended the quarter below our target range of four to six weeks of iPhone channel inventory on a look-forward basis. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessories sales was $17.1 billion during the quarter compared to $11 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 56%.

Businesses around the world continue to make iPhone an essential device for their employees. Virtually every type of enterprise in small business is using iPhone, along with the business apps from the App Store and custom apps developed in-house to drive efficiencies that were simply not possible before. Canon has provided its field sales team iPhones with secure access to its customer relationship management system, sales reps can now access customer information and the input meeting notes anywhere, giving them more time with customers.

Amtrak has deployed thousands of iPhones to train conductors, who use an in-house app that changes the entire ticketing and reporting workflow. The app enables print-at-home ticket validation, delivers a more accurate passenger manifest, and makes accounting date available to Amtrak's revenue systems in near real time, revolutionized in the paper-based process the company used in the past. And news organizations around the world are using iPhone to transform the way they capture and deliver news. Reporters for BBC, the Wall Street Journal, Mexican newspaper Milenio, and Canada's CTV News are using their iPhone cameras to capture HD video on location, and send it directly back to headquarters for broadcast on TV or streaming on the web.

Turning to iPad, we were very pleased with sales of 14 million iPads during the September quarter, compared to 11.1 million in the year-ago quarter and the increase of 26%. iPad sales were ahead of our expectations, and we saw a strong year-over-year growth in iPad sales in every geographic region. Earlier this week, we introduced the iPad mini, the thinnest, lightest, smallest iPad we've ever built. it has all the power, performance and capability customers have come to expect from an iPad, and you can hold it in one hand. We also introduced the fourth-generation iPad with a beautiful 9.7-inch Retina display, an A6 chip with twice the performance of the iPad we announced earlier this year. Together with the iPad 2, these two new iPads run more than 275,000 apps in the App Store.

Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad accessories during the quarter was $7.5 billion, compared to $6.9 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 9%. We ended the quarter with about 3.4 million iPads in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 200,000, which left as just over our four weeks of iPod channel inventory target on a look-back basis. iPad is fundamentally changing work processes across industries around the world. With apps developed in-house, iPad is helping companies deliver better service, streamline manufacturing, and empower work forces with critical data and information.

Volkswagen has developed more than 30 in-house apps for vital processes across the company, including monitoring and tracking of vehicles on the production line, scheduling the vehicle transportation at assembly plants, and greeting customers when they pick up new cars. Ping An Insurance in China has deployed thousands of iPads to their sales agents and service teams. Apps developed in-house are used by car accident inspectors to carry out onsite inspections and file claims, which significantly shortens processing time, and improves customer satisfaction. And Brazil's Banco Bradesco is using iPads to redefine the customer experience in their bank branches. Beyond completing customer transactions, employees use iPad to inform and educate customers about bank services and Bradesco apps in the App Store.

Combining iPhones, iPads and iPod touch, we sold over 44 million iOS devices in the September quarter. The App Store now offers more than 700,000 apps, including over 275,000 apps specifically for iPad. We established a new all-time record for quarterly app sales in the September quarter, and we were very pleased to report that we have reached $6.5 billion in cumulative payments to developers.

Customers are embracing iCloud in growing numbers. With over 190 million account sign-ups in the first year of the service. With iCloud, customers can access their music, photos, calendars, contacts, documents and more from whatever device they are using, and it is built into every new iOS device and every new Mac. And we launched iOS6 last month, and it's already on over 200 million devices. iOS 6 includes over 200 new features, including broader language support for Siri, Facebook integration, shared photo streams and more. We've made a number of improvements to Maps over the past month, and we will work non-stop until Maps lives up to our incredibly high standards.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue was $4.2 billion, which was a new September quarter record, and an increase of 18% over the year-ago quarter, with gross yield primarily by the store's best iPhone launch ever. The stores also established a new quarterly record for Mac sales, selling just over 1.1 million Macs. We opened a total of 18 new stores in 10 countries during the quarter, including our first store in Sweden. We also opened our second store at Hong Kong, at Festival Walk, to overwhelming response, resulting in our biggest store opening of the year.

We exited the quarter with 390 stores, 140 of which are outside the United States. With an average of 376 stores open, average revenue for store was $11.2 million, compared to $10.7 million in the year-ago quarter. Segment margin was $848 million, compared to $652 million in the year-ago quarter. We hosted 94 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, compared to 77.5 million visitors in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 22%. That translates to an average of 19,000 visitors per store, per week.

Total company gross margin was 40%, which was 150 basis points higher than our guidance. About half this difference was due to the better-than-expected commodity and other costs. Another quarterly difference was due to the leverage on higher-than-expected sales and more favorable foreign exchange. The remainder was due to some items that we do not expect recur in the December quarter.

Operating expenses were $3.5 billion, and included $379 million of stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was a net expense of $51 million. Interest income and investment gains were more than offset by higher-than-expected currency hedging expense. Under the accounting rules, foreign exchange fluctuations late in the quarter required us to accelerate recognition of premium expense related to Q1 and Q2 hedges. This will result in less premium expense being recognized in Q1 and Q2.

The tax rate for the quarter was 24.5%, bringing us to a tax rate for the full fiscal year of 25.2%. Turning to cash, our cash for short-term and long-term marketable securities totaled $121.3 billion at the end of September quarter, compared to $117.2 billion at the end of the June quarter, a sequential increase of over $4 billion. The increase in cash was net of $2.5 billion of dividends paid in August. About $83 billion of our total cash was offshore at the end of the September quarter. Cash flow from operations was $9.1 billion.

Our Board of Directors just declared a dividend of $2.65 per common share, payable on November 15, 2012 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 12, 2012. In August, we entered into a Rule 10b5-1 compliant accelerated share repurchase program with a financial institution to purchase up to the $2 billion of Apple stock during fiscal year 2013. In addition to shares purchased through the accelerated share repurchase program, we may also purchase shares in open market transactions in compliance with all applicable securities laws.

As we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. As a reminder, year-over-year comparisons will be impacted by the fact that our December quarter of this year will span 13 weeks, whereas the December quarter of last year included a 14th week. As we indicated previously, revenue in that 14th week last year was approximately 1/14 of the quarter's total revenue. We expect revenues to be about $52 billion compared to $46.3 billion in the December quarter last year. We expect gross margin to be about 36%, reflecting approximately $90 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $4.05 billion, including about $485 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OI&E to be about $380 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26%. We are targeting EPS of about $11.75.

In closing, we are extremely proud to conclude an amazing fiscal year 2012. We generated revenue of over $156 billion, which is up 45% year-over-year, and reflects growth of $48 billion in revenue. We sold over 200 million iOS devices, including 125 million iPhones, reflecting 73% growth year-over-year, and 58 million iPads, reflecting 80% growth. We sold a record 18 million Macs and shipped 35 million iPods, and we expanded the reach of iTunes music stores to 63 countries around the world. We launched stunning new versions of OS 10 and iOS, and tying it all together, we launched iCloud with customer reaching over 190 million and growing. And finally, we generated net income of $41.7 billion, an increase of 61% year-over-year. We entered this holiday season with our strongest product line-up ever, and we remain very confident in our new product pipeline. With that, I would like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter. And we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question will come from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATHRYN HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: If your guidance comes to fruition, December will be the first quarter in a very long time that Apple EPS decline year-on-year, despite what has been the broadest product refresh in the Company's history over the past two months. The bears will point out that maybe the Company's price premium or supply chain advantage is weakening. Curious how you would response to that, and then as a follow-up Peter, if you can comment on what's driving the significant gross margin down-tick in December, given you should have decent iPhone mix? Thank you.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Katy let me begin, I will address many of the things you asked, and then Tim can add a few points. The change year-over-year is being driven by a couple of things. So first of all last year included a 14th week, this year's Q1 is a normal 13 week quarter. That, along with a stronger US dollar and that the change in gross margin.

So let me talk to you about what we see for gross margin, but I am going through some detail on a sequential basis, but not year-over-year. As you pointed out, this is the most prolific product period in Apple's history. We have an unprecedented number of new product introductions over the last six weeks, and this has led to record levels of demand. New or re-priced versions of our products announced during this time frame represent over 80% of the total expected December quarter revenue, but there are costs associated with such dramatic change and demand. The iPhone 5, iPad mini, iMac, MacBook Pro 13-inch, iPod touch and iPod nano have completely new form factors with great new features, and we've never before introduced so many new form factors at once.

All of these products have higher costs than their predecessors, and therefore lower gross margins, as they are at the height of the cost curve. This has been the case with new products in the past, so nothing new. The difference this time is the sheer number of new products we are introducing in a very short period of time. Additionally, we lowered the price of the iPhone 4S and iPhone 4, delivering incredible value to our customers. We head into this holiday quarter with the strongest iPhone line-up that we have ever had, with the iPhone 4 starting at $300 in the subsidized markets. We also added the iPad mini to our iPad line-up. The iPad mini has the full iPad experience and we priced it aggressively at $329, delivering incredible value to our customers. Its gross margin is significantly below the corporate average. So in summary, we expect our gross margin to decline by about 400 basis points sequentially. We expect the benefit from positive leverage on the sequentially higher revenue and a greater mix of iPhones.

But we expect these benefits will be more than offset by a number of factors. First, margins on new products are lower than their predecessors, including the iPhone 5, and we have been aggressive with the iPad mini. Second, we've lowered the price of the iPhone 4S and the iPhone 4. Third, we will experience transitionary costs associated with multiple new product ramps.

Fourth, the high anticipated volume of iPhone and other new products will generate significantly greater deferred revenue sequentially. As you are aware, we defer a portion of our revenue with every device we sell, and amortize it back into revenue over the life of the device. In periods of exceptionally strong sales like the December quarter, the deferred amounts are significantly higher than the revenue amortized in from past sales. And fifth, the favorable items that benefited the gross margin in the September quarter are not expected to repeat in the December quarter.

We will work hard to try and get down the cost curves and improve our manufacturing and other efficiencies, as we successfully have done in the past. We ended this holiday season with our strongest product line-up ever, and we have great choices for customers. To be in position to anticipate over $50 billion of demand for our products in a single quarter is a reflection of the incredible strength of our products and our business.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC: And Katy, if I could just add a couple of things to that. We are dedicated to making the very best products in the world, and we think about the smallest of details and we are unwilling to cut corners in delivering the best customer experience to the world. If this relentless commitment to innovation and excellence is the reason that our customers to buy our products, and this will always be the driving force behind Apple. We are advantaging the company for the long run and will continue to make great long-term decisions. We remained very, very confident in our strategy and will use our world-class skills and hardware, software and services to delight our customers.

KATHRYN HUBERTY: Thanks for the detail.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Katy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Goldman Sachs, we'll go to Bill Shope.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Can you walk through how you're thinking about the ramp for the iPhone 5 in the holiday quarter? And how does some of the challenges you are facing relative to the strong demand compared to the past iOS product launch?

TIM COOK: Bill its Tim. The demand for iPhone is extremely robust. We are thrilled with what we see. We are in a significant state of backlog right now. In terms of the production, our output has improved significantly since earlier this month. And I'm very, very pleased with the progress that we've made there, I'm pleased with the current level of output, in what is the largest volume ramp in Apples history. It's difficult to predict when supply and demand will balance, but I'm feeling very confident on our ability to supply quite a few iPhones.

BILL SHOPE: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I just wanted to first follow-up on that previous question around the ramp of iPhones. Do you continue to anticipate rolling out to all 100 countries this quarter, as you had announced at the time of the iPhone 5 announcement? And related to that, can you comment on whether the supply constraints that you've had, have had a material impact on your cost of goods sold, relative to as your supply improves, do you actually expect your cost of goods sold to decline?

TIM COOK: Tony, its Tim. In regard to your first question, we still continue to anticipate rolling out to the 100 countries, as we announced before. It is our fastest rollout ever. There will be some large countries in month of December. But we anticipate still achieving the 100.

In terms of cost, with each new product, we see learning curves associated with ramping production. And the new products we have now are no exception to that. The difference is the number of new products that we having moving at once. As Peter said, and as you can tell from the announcements we have had in the last couple of months, this is the most prolific period in our history in terms of the new product introduction and innovation. The past six weeks have been phenomenal in terms of new product introduction. And so we do see all of these costs associated with each of these.

But I don't see those costs accelerating on a per unit basis. As we go through the quarter. I see it very much being a production ramp across many, many new products.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay, thank you for that color. If I could just follow-up, you've talked before about how you believe that the iPad will be, and the tablet market will be an enormous market, bigger than the PC market. Clearly, you have made a move to expand that market and make it more accessible by introducing the iPad Mini. I am wondering if over time you could see this market evolving to larger tablets going forward, that would address different needs in the marketplace, take on incremental PC functionality, and I am wondering when you talk about the iPad market being bigger than the PC market going forward, do you see larger form factors in the marketplace evolving, and I guess the question, is why not?

TIM COOK: Tony, as you know, we don't comment on our future views on products and roadmaps et cetera, but let me make some comments on your question. We continue to be very confident that the tablet market will surpass the PC market, there is incredible development in both ecosystems and product going on in the tablet space. It is already extremely compelling for many, many customers to choose the tablet, in particular an iPad over a PC. And when you look at the size of the PC market here is an enormous opportunity for Apple there. Pretty much each quarter you see 80 to 90 million PCs being sold. And so we do think that the iPad and the iPad mini and the iPad 2 will all be extremely attractive offerings for people in lieu of PCs, and we are going to continue to very much focus on the future of iPad, and we are very, very confident with what we have in the pipeline. And we are extremely pleased to have launched iPad Mini and can't wait until next Friday, when we begin selling the very first units.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Cross Research, Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Tim and Peter could you talk a little bit about China and what you're seeing in China? Clearly with your revenue guidance, it sounds like it remains strong, but obviously there's been some mixed signals from an economic standpoint.

TIM COOK: Shannon, it's Tim. In terms of what we saw in China for Q4, revenue was $5.7 billion. That's up 26% year on year. Mac was up extremely strong, up 44%. As you recall we launched portables for the first time in July or the portables we had previously announced in the US in June. We announced it in China in July. iPad was up 45% in Greater China. iPhone was up 38%. And so all in all a fantastic quarter.

That brings us to a full-year fiscal year revenue number of $23.8 billion for China, which is really phenomenal when you think about it. That's up over $10 billion year on year, up 78% and Greater China now represents about 15% of Apple for the fiscal year. And so we're extremely happy with how we've done in China.

As Peter alluded to in his opening remarks, we are continuing to invest in our own retail stores there. We continue to expand distribution with channel partners as well. And we continue to see it as an extremely exciting market with more and more people wanting Apple products.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. And I just had a follow-up question on the tablet market. With the launch of Surface today and obviously the Win8 tablets and that, could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing from a competitive standpoint and how you think about it? Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes. I haven't personally played with the Surface yet, but what we're reading about it, is that it's a fairly compromised confusing product. And so I think one of the toughest things you do with deciding which products is to make hard trade-offs and decide what a product should be, and we've really done that with the iPad. And so the user experience is absolutely incredible.

I suppose you could design a car that flies and floats, but I don't think it would do all of those things very well. And so I think people, when they look at the iPad versus competitive offerings are going to conclude they really want an iPad. And I think people have done that to date. And I think they'll continue to do that.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Can you just go through a little bit more on tablets? The iPad mini, how do you think that will sell versus the original iPad form factor? And how do you want to differentiate that? Is there more of an e-book focus with -- an education focus with the mini? And do you think it will sell more than the regular or the original iPad? And how do you want us to think about the cannibalization factor as well of the older product or the older form factor?

TIM COOK: We don't really have an old product. We have only new products. We just announced the fourth-generation iPad as well.

BEN REITZES: I knew I'd mess up in my speech there. Sorry.

TIM COOK: So no, the way that we look at this is that we provide a fantastic iPod Touch. We provide an incredible fourth-generation iPad and iPad mini and an iPad 2. Customers will decide which one or two or three or all four that they would like. And they will buy those.

So we've learned over the years not to worry about cannibalization of our own products. It's much better for us to do that than somebody else to do it. And the far, far bigger opportunity here are the 80 million to 90 million PCs that are being sold per quarter. There's still over 300 million PCs being bought per year. And I think a great number of those, those people would be much better off buying an iPad, or a Mac. And so that's a much bigger opportunity for Apple. And so instead of being focused on cannibalizing ourselves, I look at it much more that it's an enormous incremental opportunity for us. And so that's how I look at it.

BEN REITZES: Okay. And then just my quick follow-up is on Apple TV we haven't heard about your hobby in a while. And how many did you sell in the quarter? And what's the strategy there for the living room to date? And I'm intrigued to hear the answer or not an answer. (laughter)

TIM COOK: Or not, you might guess. For Q4, we sold 1.3 million. That's up over 100% year on year. That means that we sold more than 5 million Apple TVs during the fiscal year. Which is almost double the previous year. We had sold 2.8 million the previous year.

And so the business continues to do very well, but if you look at the size revenue of this business versus our other businesses, it's quite small. And so it still has a hobby label. However, it's a beloved hobby. And we continue to focus on it and continue to believe there's something more there and continued to pull the strings to see where it takes us.

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot, Tim.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Tim, can you talk a little bit about the iPad? We saw a deceleration in the September quarter. Was there anything in particular that might have been as you think about that business, might have been driving that?

TIM COOK: The June to September was 17 million to 14 million, Jean. And the thing -- the first thing to note there is that as we had talked about in the July call, the June quarter contained 1.2 million increase in channel inventory. And so the actual sell through sequentially comparison looks very different than the reported sell in numbers do.

The second thing is that the 14 million exceeded what we had expected to do in iPad. And the reason we had expected it to decline is that we believe based on the two or three years of results that we've got is that normally we would see a seasonal reduction in the September quarter versus the June quarter. Part of this reason is because K-12 heavily buys in the June quarter. K-12 doesn't buy very much in the September quarter. It becomes a higher ed kind of move. And higher ed is still buying notebooks for the most part.

And so there's some kind of normal seasonal -- that's exaggerated further when we announced a new product in March. And have an enormous full quarter of demand in the June quarter. And then when you compare that to the September quarter, that would be a natural phase down. In addition to all of that, it's clear that customers delayed purchases of tablets due to new product rumors. And these intensified in August and September. Some of that was anticipated and some of it I wish wouldn't occur. But it did occur. That's how I would explain the sequential difference.

On a year-over-year basis, because of the year ago quarter, having also a channel inventory build as we stocked the channel to the proper level, this sell-through year over year actually grew 44%, and so the underlying sell-through was extremely strong. And so we continue to feel great about how iPad has done with announcing the fourth-generation iPad just this week and adding the iPad mini to the family, we think it's going to be an incredible holiday season.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Great. Thank you. My follow-up question is given what we're seeing in margins as some of these products get more expensive to produce to be competitive, would you be open to passing some of those costs on to your customers? Obviously historically you've announced new products and maintained a lot of those price points.

TIM COOK: It's a hypothetical question. And so we think we've made great choices on those products and the prices and as you know, our customary practice -- long-standing customary practice is just to guide for the current quarter. And so I wouldn't want to talk about what we might do post that.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Peter or Tim, my first question is around the sequential guidance for revenue of around 44% quarter on quarter for December. Can you provide us some context about how we should think about the iPad and the iPhone families in particular? How their revenue growth could dovetail with that 44%?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Hi, Mark. It's Peter. You're asking the sequential question but I do want just to remind everybody that if you're looking at this year over year and comparing the sequentials year over year, don't forget about the 14th week last year in Q1. You need to adjust for that and I think it would give you a different answer if you were comparing anything year over year.

Specific to your question about iPhone and iPad sequentially, we have just announced amazing new products in both lineups, and we expect large sequential increases going from the September to December quarter. And as a result, we're thrilled to be providing guidance tonight for $52 billion of revenue.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. And then, Tim, a question on the iPhone 5, as far as just the global rollout, what is the approach? Is the approach to first touch all 100 countries? And have supply constraints impacting all 100 countries first? And then go back and backfill all of those different outlets?

Or will there be certain markets where you decide to reach supply demand equilibrium first and then keep some of those other 100 countries kind of at constrained levels? Kind of curious about the average there. Are you going to try to first sprinkle the product everywhere and then backfill later? Or will it be more targeted?

TIM COOK: What we did initially, Mark, was we planned the first 30 to 40 countries prior to introducing the product. And rolled those out across a September in two different days. The balance of the quarter, we planned with an eye toward the supply and what we think the demand will be. But we do plan these in advance. And so it is not a precise science. And we obviously have to plan those with several weeks of notice. And so occasionally, it can be different than what we think.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Milunovich, UBS.

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, UBS: Regarding the iPad, you said that you priced it very aggressively. I think many people on the street seem to have a slightly different view. Could you maybe talk a little bit about your pricing philosophy and was it driven by cost? Or is it just more to keep a premium brand given the quality of your products?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Steve, it's Peter. When we set out to build the iPad mini, we didn't set out to build a small, cheap tablet. We set out to build a smaller iPad that offered the full iPad experience, as our customers would expect. As a result, the difference between the iPad mini and the competition is profound.

Our iPad mini begins with a 7.9-inch display, which is 35% larger than the 7-inch tablets, providing a much better experience. We are shipping two great cameras. FaceTime HD front and a 5 megapixel 1080p iSight rear camera versus typically one from our competition. We are shipping our fastest communications with dual band Wi-Fi and included the A5 chip, which has higher performance than our competitors. And finally, the fit and finish of our precision unibody aluminum closure is breathtaking when held in your hands.

So that's what we've done. The iPad mini has higher cost. And the gross margin is significantly below our corporate average. We're beginning at the height of the cost curve, but in addition to wanting to make a large number, we're going to work to try to get down the cost curves and be more efficient in manufacturing as we have been in the past with our other products.

TIM COOK: Steve, it's Tim. One of the things we try to do is to create a product that people will love for months and years after they purchase it and continue using it in a robust way. So that's what iPad mini has been designed to do. And you can really see that more broadly on iPad by looking at the usage statistics.

As I've mentioned earlier this week, over 90% of the web traffic from tablets are from iPads. And so Apple will not make a product that somebody may feel good about for the moment that they're paying for it and then when they get it home, they rarely ever use it again. That's not what we're about. It's not the kind of experience we want our customers to have. And I think when -- I would encourage you to use an iPad mini and I don't think you'll be using anything other than maybe another iPad or something after you do that.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: I look forward to it. Could you comment on your enterprise opportunity? Obviously a lot of it is BYOD but you have many retailers who have a corporate directive to use iPads and so forth. Are you doing anything a little bit more aggressive to support that market particularly with the Windows pads now coming out?

TIM COOK: We now have almost all of the Fortune 500 that are testing or deploying iPad. And I think with the recent announcements, the penetration will only grow. We've also pushed fairly aggressively in the global 500. And so those numbers now are above 80% on both iPhone and iPad. And so I feel like we're doing fairly well there. There's clearly much more to do, but I'm feeling pretty good about it.

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Craig, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

SCOTT CRAIG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Tim, can you maybe comment on the component environment a little bit, particularly with related to iPad, iPad mini, and iPhone and just where you see some of the constraints perhaps here as your launching? And then, Peter, just a quick one for you, the volatility on the OI&E line, is that just a calendar third-quarter and calendar fourth-quarter issue and then it normalizes or is that going to continue? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Scott, it's Tim. In terms of iPad and iPhone, I don't see a component shortage gating us for the quarter in the numbers that we've given you in the guidance. I think we've solved some challenges there and feel good about our position.

In terms of general shortages, on the iMac we'll be constrained for the full quarter in a significant way. Part of that is that we're beginning shipping the 21.5-inch iMac in November and the 27-inch in December. And so there will be a short amount of time during the quarter to manufacture and ramp those and I expect the demand to be robust. So we will have a significant shortage there.

The others are more based on how big is big from a demand point of view. And that is very difficult to predict but you can tell that we are extremely bullish on the demand with the revenue guidance that Peter talked about earlier. So hopefully that answers your question.

SCOTT CRAIG: Yes. Thanks.

GARY WIPFLER, VP TREASURER, APPLE INC: This is Gary. I'll take the OI&E question. I'll expand on Peter's remarks just a little bit. While interest income was about what we expected, foreign exchange hedging expense was higher than we expected relative to our guidance. Without getting overly detailed, dollar weakness late in the quarter and accounting rules required us to accelerate and recognize a large amount of foreign exchange premium expense related to future quarter hedges in the current quarter. All things being equal, premium expense in Q1 should be lower. This has been factored into our December OI&E guidance of $380 million.

OPERATOR: Brian Marshall, ISI Group.

BRIAN MARSHALL, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: If you look at the iPhone unit growth versus the revenue growth, that's been a pretty similar dynamic over the past several quarters, but when you look at that same dynamic for the iPad it's actually started to break down slightly over the past couple quarters. In fact, this most recent quarter it looks like revenues grew three times faster than the unit growth, so I guess the question is, is this just simply the market migrating down to the low end of the SKU stack or is this less accessories from an attach or a dollar spend? And I have a quick follow-up.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Brian, it's Peter. I didn't quite follow your three times, but the iPhone ASPs were relatively flat in the September quarter year on year and were up slightly on a sequential basis. The iPad ASPs were down year over year in a low-double digit way. But this really was reflective of our price reduction on the iPad 2, the stronger dollar and a little bit of change in mix. And that's what drove the ASP change year over year. On a sequential basis, iPad ASPs were actually pretty flat.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Great. Thanks. And then the quick follow-up is looks like this is the second quarter in a row that the United States iPhone activations is actually growing faster than the international market, and that seems like a strange dynamic considering the magnitude of the TAM of the international being order of magnitude larger than the US. I just wonder if you could comment on that. Thanks.

TIM COOK: I think it's important to remember there that we launched iPhone 5 in the US during the quarter and where we launched in some international countries, the bulk of the world, we did not launch yet. And so I would have expected to have seen a more significant growth in the US versus the rest of the world.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman, Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Clarification question. Will the iPhone 5 launch in mainland China occur in the December quarter?

TIM COOK: Keith, it's Tim. Yes, we project that it will occur in December.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thanks. And for the clarification on top of that, did you comment that you think you will be able to meet supply of iPhones at the end of the December quarter? Or do you think you will end the quarter with backlog of iPhone 5 or iPhones, I should just say as a product category?

TIM COOK: I'm actually not projecting whether supply and demand will balance for the quarter. I'm saying that I feel great about where we are on the manufacturing ramp, that we are -- our supply output is significantly higher than it was earlier in October. And I'm confident that we'll be able to supply quite a few during the quarter, but in terms of when that balance occurs, I can't tell at this point.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay.

TIM COOK: Demand is very robust.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Whitmore, Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Tim I wanted to go back to the iPad one more time if I could. Specifically I wanted to ask or try to get a feel for your view around the emerging model in the tablet space where vendors are willing to subsidize their hardware with content or search where many of these vendors are selling hardware at a breakeven or even a loss, and hoping to make it up on the back end. How is that impacting your iPad business if at all? And is that something Apple would consider going forward?

TIM COOK: We've seen low-cost challengers before. And iPad continues to beat every other tablet on the market at any price. And so we think customers are very smart. We think they have very high expectations. We think that they want a device that can do more. And we're confident that our focus on making the best product is what will win at the end of the day. And so we will stay true to that.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Okay. And my second question I wanted to ask about supply. It sounds like you've made a lot of changes to your supplier list as these new products are ramping perhaps due to strategic reasons. And is that creating an added layer of complexity as you try to ramp these new products? And to what extent is that contributing perhaps to the higher cost structure of these products?

TIM COOK: I'm not sure what you're trying to get at there, but I would not say that there's been a significant change in our supplier partners. There's always some change obviously, but I wouldn't describe any change as significant. And there hasn't been a change that would have driven more cost if that's your specific question.

CHRIS WHITMORE: I was specifically asking about LCD and your Samsung relationship.

TIM COOK: LCD -- I wouldn't characterize any change there as having driven any cost. And Samsung we continue to be a customer of Samsung. And continue to have a commercial relationship.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Kulbinder Garcha, Credit Suisse.

KULBINDER GARCHA, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: My first question I guess is for Tim. Just in terms on the iPad mini, there's obviously been a fair amount of debate within Apple over the years whether to even do the smaller screen iPad, and can you speak about what you've learned over the last couple of years as to why the time for that now is right or was the technology is right, just any insight there would be helpful.

And then for Peter, my question is on gross margin. I just want to revisit it slightly in the sense that you guys have spoken about various higher cost structures before as well in the move from I think the 3GS to the 4 on the iPhone. Even when the iPad was launched, in the end what we've seen is that the scale that Apple are building, the size of revenues you're getting to, the component reuse is meant that you actually very quickly got through these potential gross margin dips. Is anything structurally different this time around? Many thanks.

TIM COOK: On your question about iPad mini, the comments that I think you're referencing are comments that Steve had made before about 7-inch tablets. And let me be clear, we would not make one of the 7-inch tablets. We don't think they are good products. And we would never make one. Not just because it's 7 inches, but for many reasons.

One of the reasons, however is size. And so I'm not sure if you saw our keynote, but the difference in just the real estate size between the 7.9, almost 8, versus 7 is 35%. And when you look at the usable area, it's much greater than that. It's from 50% to 67%. And also, the iPad mini has the same number of pixels as iPad 2 does. And so you have access to all 275,000 apps that are in our App Store that have been custom designed to take advantage of the full canvas.

And so iPad mini is a fantastic product. It's not a compromised product like the 7-inch tablets are. It's in a whole different league.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Kulbinder, the sequential decline in gross margin that we see in the December quarter is largely being driven by many new form factor changes and some price reductions that we've taken that I went through in great detail. And we believe that over 80% of the revenue that we will see in the December quarter will come from products that we just introduced in the last six weeks.

And so while having lower gross margins on a new product is not something that's new for us, what is different this time is just the sheer number of new products that we've introduced in the last six weeks. We just have not had that magnitude in the past. So I don't see something that's structurally different. And we have a big focus on wanting to make a lot of these products to get them in customers' hands as quickly as we can, but we're also going to work to try and get down the cost curves and improve manufacturing and other efficiencies as we have successfully done in the past.

So no change in what we're going to try and work on. And we'll report to you in January how we did.

KULBINDER GARCHA: Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks with a podcast on the iTunes Store, the webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 883-4583. These replays will be available by approximately 5.30 PM Pacific Time today, and members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts can contact either Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation. EventID.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121109e8ap0018m
  


 HD
 Q3  2012 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,051 words
   PD
24 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated third quarter fiscal year 2012 earnings release call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, IR CONTACT, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by Apple's CEO, Tim Cook, and Treasurer, Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2011, the Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP OF FINANCE, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy.

We're pleased to report the results of our third fiscal quarter. We established new all-time quarterly record for iPad unit sales and new June quarter records for iPhone and Mac unit sales. Leading to our highest June quarter of revenue and earnings ever.

Revenue for the quarter was $35 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 23%. This $6.5 billion increase over the prior June quarter's results was driven primarily by strong growth in iPad and iPhone sales. Operating margin was $11.6 billion, representing 33% of revenue. Net income was $8.8 billion, increasing 21% over the prior June quarter's results. The quarter's net income translated to diluted earnings per share of $9.32.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with our Mac products and services. We sold 4 million Macs, establishing a new June quarter record. This represents 2% growth year-over-year, compared to IDC's latest published estimate of a 1% contraction of the global personal computer market in the June quarter.

Last month we updated the entire MacBook line with faster processors, graphics, memory, flash storage and USB3 connectivity. We also introduced the all new 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina display, all-flash architecture and quad core processors, and customer response has been excellent.

While we're seeing tremendous momentum for the iPad in education, which I'll discuss later, we also experienced our best quarter ever for US education institution Mac sales, with portables representing nearly three-quarters of total Mac sales. Notable large education transactions closed during the June quarter include Rutherford County, North Carolina, which has purchased 6,000 MacBook Airs to support its 21st century digital learning environment, and Pueblo, Colorado School District 70, where all high school students and K-12 staff in the 22-school district will convert to MacBook Air.

We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory, which is below our target range of four to five weeks. Tomorrow, we will release Mountain Lion, the ninth major release of OS10. Mountain Lion introduces more than 200 features including all new messages app, notification center, system-wide sharing, and Facebook integration. We built iCloud into the foundation of Mountain Lion, making it easier than ever for customers to keep content up-to-date across all their devices.

Moving to our music products, we sold 6.8 million iPods compared to 7.5 million in the year-ago quarter. Total iPod sales were ahead of our expectations, and iPod Touch continued to account for over half of all iPods sold. iPod's share of the US market for Mp3 players remained at over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by NPD, and iPod continued to be the top selling Mp3 player in most countries we track based on the latest data published by GFK. We ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory.

The iTunes Store generated very strong results in the quarter with revenue of over $1.8 billion, thanks to continued strong sales of music, apps and other content. We were pleased to launch the iTunes Store in 12 countries, including Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan last month. Customers can choose from over 20 million songs to purchase and download from iTunes.

We're continuing to see great interest in iTunes U. Since rolling it out in January, there have been over 14 million downloads of the iTunes U app. Over 700 new K-12 schools and districts and over 125 colleges and universities have enrolled in the iTunes U program, while over 750 new courses have been published.

I'd now like to turn to iPhone. We sold 26 million iPhones, compared to 20.3 million in the previous June quarter. That represents 28% year-over-year growth and was ahead of the amount we factored into our guidance following very strong sales in channel inventory build we achieved in the March quarter. We added several small regional carriers during the quarter and now have iPhone distribution through over 250 carriers in over 100 countries.

We ended the quarter with about 8.3 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential decline of about 300,000 iPhones, and we remain within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPhone channel inventory. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessory sales was $16.2 billion during the quarter, compared to $13.3 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 22%.

Enterprises across the globe continue to choose iPhone as the standard device for their employees. We estimate that the number of iPhones in the Fortune 500 has more than doubled in the past year. IPhone is helping businesses and employees be more productive wherever they are. PepsiCo has deployed thousands of iPhones with an in-house app built specifically for their field merchandisers. This app has eliminated paper reports and provides real-time information to managers, sales teams and delivery drivers. And German insurance provider, ERGO, has built an in-house app for iPhone that thousands of agents use to process insurance claims, which has significantly reduced paperwork and improved processing time and customer satisfaction.

Turning to iPad, we were thrilled with sales of over 17 million iPads during the June quarter compared to [9.2] million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 84%. We saw very strong year-over-year growth in iPad sales around the world, and are pleased to be selling iPad in 97 countries. Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad Accessories during the quarter was $9.2 billion, compared to $6.0 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 52%. We ended the quarter with about 3.2 million iPads in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 1.2 million units, which left us just within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPad channel inventory.

The iPad continues to be a great success in the US education market, with sales setting a new quarterly record and nearly doubling year-over-year to just under 1 million iPads. While interest in the new iPad was high, sales of the reduced priced iPad-2 in the K-12 market were particularly strong. Even though, as I mentioned earlier, we achieved all-time record Mac sales to US education institutions during the quarter. We sold more than twice as many iPads as Macs to US education institutions. We are extremely pleased with these results.

One great example of iPad adoption in education is the Mansfield, Texas Independent School District which has purchased 11,000 iPads. This fall, every Mansfield high school student and teacher will receive an iPad under the district's Power Up initiative. Some teachers will use a flipped classroom concept, putting their lessons and resources online where students can access them anytime with their iPads. As a result, students take responsibility for their own learning. And teachers are able to increase their interaction and personalized content time.

iPad continues its rapid adoption within the enterprise. We estimate that the number of iPads in the Fortune 500 has more than tripled in the past year. iPad has become an indispensable tool worldwide to help employees across industries do their jobs more effectively. British Airways has incorporated thousands of iPads across their business from customer support at checkin to cabin service directors, replacing paper printout that detail customer preferences and provide real-time updates. And home builder Daiwa House in Japan is actively building smart homes that will be controlled by iPads, and their sales reps are using iPads to show floor plans and upgrade options.

Combining iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, we surpassed 410 million cumulative iOS device sales, selling more than 45 million in the June quarter. With app stores in 155 countries, the iOS ecosystem continues to grow. The app store now offers more than 650,000 apps, including over 225,000 apps specifically for iPad. We are extremely pleased to report that we have surpassed $5.5 billion in payments to developers.

And customers are loving iCloud. Since its launch in October, more than 150 million people are using iCloud services. In June, we previewed many of the exciting new features of iOS 6 at our developer's conference, including our fabulous new maps app, new functionality and broader language support for Siri, direct Facebook integration, shared photo streams via iCloud, and Passbook, the simplest way to get all your passes in one place. We believe iOS 6 will significantly enhance the experience of owning an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch, and we can't wait to get it into the hands of customers this fall.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue was $4.1 billion, an increase of 17% over the year-ago quarter, with growth fueled primarily by all-time record iPad sales and strong growth in iPhone sales. The stores sold 791,000 Macs compared to 768,000 in the year-ago quarter, and almost half the Macs sold in our stores during the quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before.

We opened a total of nine new stores in the quarter and exited the quarter with 372 stores, including 123 stores outside the United States. With an average of 367 stores opened, average revenue per store was $11.1 million, compared to $10.8 million in the year-ago quarter. Segment margin was $868 million, compared to $802 million in the year-ago quarter. We welcomed 83 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, compared to 74 million visitors in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 12%. That translates to an average of 17,000 visitors per store, per week.

Total Company gross margin was 42.8%, which was 130 basis points higher than our guidance. We experienced upside from better than expected commodity, warranty, and other costs. These factors were partially offset by a stronger mix of iPad sales, a higher mix of lower priced iPhones, and a stronger US dollar relative to our expectations. Operating expenses were $3.4 billion and included $378 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $288 million, and the tax rate was 25.6%.

Turning to cash, our cash for short-term and long-term marketable securities totaled $117.2 billion at the end of the June quarter, compared to $110 billion at the end of the March quarter, a sequential increase of $7 billion. And about $81 billion of the cash was offshore at the end of the June quarter. Cash flow from operations was $10.2 billion.

Today, we are announcing that our Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $2.65 per common share, payable on August 16, 2012, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 13, 2012. Going forward, subject to declaration by our Board, we expect to announce record and payment dates for future dividends concurrently with our quarterly earnings announcements. Also, as we previously announced, our Board has authorized a three-year, $10 billion share repurchase program starting in our fiscal 2013 which begins on September 30, 2012.

As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be about $34 billion, compared to $28.3 billion in the September quarter last year. We expect gross margin to be about 38.5%, reflecting approximately $70 million related to stock-based compensation expense.

We expect OpEx to be about $3.5 billion, including about $390 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $175 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%. We are targeting EPS of about $7.65.

In closing, we're pleased with our record June quarter results, including sales of over 17 million iPads. We established new June quarter records for unit sales of iPhone and Macs, and posted our best quarter ever for US education. We remain extremely confident in our strategy and the investments we are making in our Business. We are very excited to be launching Mountain Lion tomorrow and iOS 6 in the fall, and we have some more amazing new products in our pipeline that we look forward to discussing with you later. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: We would like to ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. May we have the first question, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes. Thank you. Peter, I want to better understand the gross margin guidance for September given that it's been nearly two years since you've operated at a sub-40% gross margin. I understand mix may go against you a little bit in the near term. But it should be structurally higher than two years ago.

You have NAND pricing moving in your favor and the products that you're selling in the market are relatively mature so manufacturing costs should be favorable. Can you just talk about the dynamics that are pushing gross margins down again in September and then I have a follow-up.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. We expect our gross margin, as I said, to be about 38.5%, which is down about 430 basis points sequentially. We expect most of this decline to be primarily driven by a fall transition, and to a much lesser extent the impact of the stronger US dollar. The warranty benefit that we saw in the June quarter not repeating, and a full quarter of the back-to-school promotion, so that's what we see doing it, Katy.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay. And then as a follow-up, Tim, you've obviously seen spectacular growth in China over the last several years, but there are some macro concerns in the market and your Asia-Pacific growth rate did decelerate from over 100% to I think 25% this quarter. So can you talk about what you're seeing in China as it relates to overall demand? Thank you.

TIM COOK, CHIEF OPERATIONS OFFICER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Yes, Katy. Hi, it's Tim. The growth in Asia-Pacific was 25%, as you indicated, and the vast majority of the difference in our sequential growth rate was a result of greater China, which represents about two-thirds of our revenue of that region. As we reported for Q2, our greater China revenue was $7.9 billion, and in Q3 our revenue was $5.7 billion. The $5.7 billion is a 48% year-over-year increase, and so it still is growing at incredible rates.

Virtually all of the $2.2 billion sequential revenue decline was due to the -- was due to iPhone sales in greater China. And about half of that $2.2 billion is attributable to changes in the channel inventory, not the underlying sell-you through of the iPhone. As a reminder, in the previous quarter, in our fiscal Q2, we launched the iPhone 4S in China in January. We added China Telecom as a second carrier in March. And as we proceeded across the quarter, we increased the channel inventory to accommodate the sales and to reach our target inventory of 4 to 6 weeks.

The remainder of the sequential revenue decline is mainly attributable to normal seasonality after the very successful iPhone 4S launch. We did not see an obvious impact in Q3 that we would associate with the economy in mainland China. We look at the economic reports, as all of you do, and see the press, but again, we did not see something that we would attribute to the economy in China.

In terms of iPhones in general, in mainland China, we were incredibly pleased with our results. We were up over 100% year-over-year, and as you probably know, just last Friday, so in Q4, we launched our new iPad in China after we resolved the iPad trademark issue. And so our sales did not benefit from the new iPad in the June quarter in mainland China.

Also, our new portables that we announced at the Worldwide Developers Conference began to ship in mainland China last week after we received routine regulatory approval. And once again the June quarter sales did not benefit from these products. So net, we remain really confident about our plans and are very excited about our opportunity in China. And are very much looking forward to incorporating more local services, as you probably saw in the Worldwide Developers Conference announcement of iOS 6, which will be coming in the fall.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Okay, great. Thanks. Can you talk about your thoughts on the individual segment trends when looking at your guidance, I know last quarter you had given us some thoughts on that. Could you walk through how we're thinking about it now, coming off the sequential declines this quarter, particularly on the iPhone segment.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Bill, it's Peter. Let me start off and Tim wants to add something, he can. I'll first talk about the products and then a little bit about how we're thinking of revenue.

For iPhone, we would expect to have a year-over-year increase in sales in the September quarter. For iPad, we would also expect to have a year-over-year increase, but we would point out that we increased channel inventory in the June quarter by 1.2 million units. And in the year-ago quarter, we also increased the iPad inventory at that time by 1.5 million units. And for Mac, we would expect a sequential increase.

As we think about revenue, we're providing revenue guidance that is up 20% year-over-year, and we've included several things in our thinking. The first, we're not expecting the economies in Europe or the natural resource based countries including Australia, Brazil and Canada to improve from what we saw in the June quarter. As Tim said, we saw no obvious evidence of the economy impacting our sales in China in the June quarter, or in the US, but we're reading the same things that you all are about these economies. So we'll have to see.

Our weekly iPhone sales continue to be impacted by rumors and speculation regarding new products. We exited the June quarter in supply and demand balance and we were within our 4 to 6 week inventory target. We also don't expect to add any significant new country or carrier additions in the September quarter.

Regarding iPad, as I said, we're able to increase our iPad channel inventory in the June quarter by 1.2 million units. And we ended the June quarter just within our 4 to 6 week channel inventory target. And we increased last year by 1.5 million units in the September quarter, which also put us in our 4 to 6 week inventory target. These increases in channel inventory will impact both the year-over-year and sequential compares for iPad. The current iPad lineup that we're selling includes the very successful $399 price point, which we did not have in the year-ago quarter. So this, along with mix in the line, will impact the ASPs in the September quarter.

And finally, the US dollar has strengthened against most currencies around the world, including the Euro, Brazilian real, the Chinese RMB, British pound, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso and Swiss franc. We expect this to have an adverse impact to revenue in these countries in excess of $400 million sequentially, net of our hedges. All that being said, we very much look forward to introducing iOS 6 in the fall and we remain very confident in our business and our new product pipeline.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Just a follow-up if I could on the sequential iPhone decline. You gave us a pretty good outline of what was going on in China but can you walk us through some of the trends that you saw for iPhone demand sequentially in the other international region?

TIM COOK: Yes, Bill, it's Tim. First of all, at a global level, I think it's important to understand as you compare our Q2 iPhone sales to Q3, there's a fairly large channel inventory difference that is embedded in that. As you recall, in January we completed the iPhone 4S rollout in all the major countries including China. It was our fastest iPhone roll-out ever. We were also able to get the channel at a -- within our target inventory range of 4 to 6 weeks by the end of March. And so what that did was it increased sell-in over sell-through by 2.6 million units.

In the quarter that we just finished, our sell-in was less than sell-through by 300,000 units. And so the net change in channel inventory across the quarter is about 3 million units. And so I think it's important to understand that, to look at the underlying sell-through trends.

In terms of what we see happening in the different geographies, the US was very strong, running at 47%. Japan was strong at 45%. I've already mentioned greater China. Greater China was up 66%, but mainland China was over double, as I said before, was over 100% up.

The geography that did not perform well was Europe. Europe was essentially flat, slightly positive year-on-year, and that really hampered our total results.

Within Europe, now I'll switch from iPhone to talking about more of the gross revenue level. We see a marked difference between the countries. The UK was relatively solid at 30% growth. But France and Greece and Italy were particularly poor, and Germany was also only a single digit positive growth for the quarter. Eastern Europe was strong, materially stronger than Western Europe, but obviously the Western European countries drive the preponderance of the revenue in that segment.

And so we are certainly seeing a slowdown in business in that area. Fortunately, the US and China, although I realize it's getting a lot of press, we're not seeing anything there that we would classify as an obvious economic issue.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Very helpful. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks a lot. My first question, I wanted to ask about the fall transition you mentioned, Peter, when you were talking about gross margin. Can you talk a little bit about that, what is the sequential impact on margins and revenue that you're baking in? And then qualitatively how much would you get back in the December quarter, or how much of it's short-term?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Ben, I don't want to frustrate you or others, but the fall transition that I spoke about is driving most of the decline that we see sequentially in gross margin. It's not something that we're going to talk about in any level of detail today. And we could not be more confident in our new product pipeline.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Just with regard to the iPhone in general, you mentioned there were speculation about new products and rumors, but do you have any quantification of how much that hurt sales in the quarter, either from you or Tim? And how much that maybe channel inventory reduction you'll need to do in the next quarter, maybe resulting from that type of speculation?

TIM COOK: Ben, I think there's a lot of speculation out there. It's difficult to sort out, but I'm fairly convinced, based on what I've seen, that there's an incredible anticipation out there for future products. And as you would expect, given what we've been able to deliver in the past. And so I think it's a reasonable amount. In terms of channel inventory in the current quarter, we put our current thinking in the guidance that Peter provided you.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thank you very much.

TIM COOK: Yep.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. Can you talk a bit about the Mac business? I mean, it was up 2% year-over-year, clearly still outperforming the market, but could you talk about what you're seeing? How much of the slower growth was from say the product transition versus weak economy? And then any thoughts on cannibalization of Macs by the iPad.

TIM COOK: Shannon, it's Tim. It's clear the PC market is weak based on the latest IDC data, but frankly, we believe the primary factor for our lower growth rate in the Mac area is the timing of our portable announcement within last quarter. As you know, we announced an entirely new portable lineup that's been incredibly well-received. That was done with three weeks, or less than three weeks remaining in the quarter. The year-ago compare, we made a transition in the portable area in February, and so we were selling our new lineup for the entire Q3 period.

And so if you look at the data underneath that to further illustrate this, prior to the developers conference our weekly Mac sales were running below the prior year. After the developers conference, the MacBook Pros and the MacBook Airs drove year-over-year increases in weekly sell-through. And they were to the level that got us back to an overall positive territory for the quarter and our 25th consecutive quarter of growing faster than the market.

The MacBook Pro with the Retina display was incredibly well-received. We ended the quarter in backlog and we still have not caught up with demand yet, but anticipate doing so next month.

Also, to further illustrate the portable point, for the month of June the NPD data that just came out for the United States showed our portable share at 25.5%, and a record 47% of revenue share in the month of June. And so I would attribute a large amount to what has happened in terms of the timing of our portable announcement.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Great. And then could you talk a little bit, Tim, about what your conversations are like with the carriers in terms of pricing, subsidies, there's been a lot of talk about that over the last few months. So just how are your discussions with the carriers going clearly into the product transition that's coming?

TIM COOK: Let me avoid talking about the product transition. But you're very smart to ask that. I don't want to get into specific topics about with different carriers.

But generally I would just say that our role is to make the very best smartphone in the world, and that has an incredible user experience, far superior than anything else that customers want to use every day. And I think at the end of the day, the carriers want to buy -- want to provide their customers with what their customers want to buy. And so the most important thing for Apple by far is to continue making the best products in the world. And we are very deeply committed to doing this, and we're maniacally focused on it.

From the carrier's perspective I think it's also important to remember that the total subsidy that they pay is fairly small relative to the monthly payments that they collect over a 24-month contract period. And I think many would tell you, they certainly told me, that iPhone has several advantages for them over other smartphones. The churn rates are much less. You see carriers now focusing on shared data plans and I think an iPhone customer is likely more -- is more likely to have a tablet or an iPad, and so I think they really value these customers quite a bit.

Also, our engineering teams are very sensitive to working with carriers to find the most efficient way to deal with data. And we think that we're the most efficient smartphone on the market for smartphones that are in an app-rich ecosystem. And so we're going to continue focusing on making the best product, and I think that the carriers will be very motivated to make sure that they provide the customers.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Can we have the next question?

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Yes, thank you. I have one for Peter and one for Tim, please.

Peter, you talked about how you were above expectations relative to your guidance on iPhone. You also mentioned you were above expectations on iPod. And you said you were thrilled with iPad, yet your EPS came in I think 5% or 6% above your guidance. So perhaps you can help us illustrate where you were disappointed relative to your original guidance, because I think the commentary would certainly point to a much larger beat.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Toni, look we're -- given what's going on around us, we are happy with our quarter. Sales of each of our products did exceed what we had had factored into the guidance. That was especially true of the iPad which set a new record at 17 million units. And the $35 billion of revenue that we reported grew by $6.5 billion year-over-year.

We do think some things did impact us in the quarter, so let me comment on that. The economy in Europe is not doing well. We think this impacted our results. We also saw some economic impact in the natural resource based economies including in Australia, Brazil and Canada.

As Tim discussed, regarding the iPhone, we're reading the same rumors and speculation that you are about a new iPhone, and we think this has caused some pause in customers purchasing. The timing of availability of Intel's Ivy Bridge and resulting rumors about the new portables impacted our sales in April and May. Tim talked about how after WDC we saw a large increase in sales, both in terms of weekly sales, before WDC, and on a year-over-year basis, and customers are loving the new MacBook Pro. And we did not get the benefit of launching the new iPad in China or the new portables as we're pursuing routine regulatory approval. And finally, the dollar strengthened against most currencies around the world which reduced our revenue growth sequentially by over $200 million net of our hedges.

So we think these things impacted the quarter. We're very happy with how the business is performing and are excited about our new product pipeline.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you for that. Tim, the question that I had for you was whether you could talk a little bit about smartphone growth in emerging markets. China's obviously the biggest one. Some of the data that I've seen suggests that about 70% of the phones that are being -- smartphones that are being purchased in places like China and other emerging countries are under $300, and in many cases under $200. Do you agree with that market characterization?

And at some point does that become a -- does that limit your ability to gain share in a marketplace where it's 70% of the units are at a price point that you currently don't play in? At what point does that math prevent you from gaining share, and what are your strategies for ensuring continued share going forward, if indeed that's an objective.

TIM COOK: Toni, the specific data that you quoted, the 70%, doesn't map to what I've seen. But let me try to answer your general question without that specific.

We've been very focused as you know on China, because we see it as an enormous opportunity for us. And I'm very pleased that we were able to grow our iPhone sales over 100% last quarter. So I feel very, very good about that And I firmly believe that people in the emerging markets want great products like they do in developed markets, and so forth.

And so we're going to stick to our knitting and make the best products, and we think that if we do that, that we've got a very, very good business ahead of us. So that's what we're doing.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And the share objective in and of itself is not an explicit one, Tim? That's a consequence of making good products, it either happens or it doesn't? Or is that an explicit objective for the iPhone business on a global basis and on an emerging markets basis?

TIM COOK: Our North Star 4, the Company in total, so not just iPhones, but across everything that we make is to make the very best product. And that's more important and overshadows all other things. But we do believe by doing that, that we will have a great business, and I think that our results today really show that.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yep.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Andy Hargreaves, Pacific Crest.

ANDY HARGREAVES, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Hi. Just first, a clarification. Is the channel inventory commentary all on a look-forward basis?

TIM COOK: You're talking about the weeks, Andy, the week that we quote are forward-looking because inventory is in the channel for forward sales.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Yep. Okay. So then the comments on iPad being just slightly within the range of 4 to 6 weeks would seem to imply a fairly significant slowdown sequentially in sell-through. Can you comment on what's driving that expectation?

TIM COOK: Keep in mind that the channel inventory is only for the indirect channel. That it's not used for -- to support any direct sales, and direct sales are Apple retail sales, Apple online sales, Apple education sales. And so I don't want to give you a specific guidance on iPad sales. It's important to keep that in mind.

That's just not the case with iPad, but it's the case with all products. I know that there are some companies out there that refer to their channel inventory in terms of their gross sales, but we don't do that because we feel very strongly that it only supports the channel sales. That's how we calculate it.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay. Thanks. And then just you've obviously talked a fair amount about pricing umbrellas in the past and on the iPhone side you've done some things to address that. How are you thinking about that now on the iPad side now that there's some slightly higher quality competition like the Nexus 7 at lower price points.

TIM COOK: We repriced the iPad 2 to $399. It did very well in the quarter, the most popular iPad is the new iPad but iPad 2 did very well. It was particularly key in the K-12 area that Peter spoke about earlier where we sold about 1 million units for the quarter. And so we have been very aggressive in this space, and I don't see changing that.

In terms of competition, we've all seen I think many different tablets, hundreds of them come to market over the last year, and I have yet to see any of them really gain what I would call any level of traction at all. We have over 225,000 apps that have been optimized for iPad. There's an incredible experience on iPad and I still think the market very much or most customers feel that they -- they're not really looking for tablet, they're just looking for an iPad. And we're going to keep innovating in the space and keep making great products and I think we'll keep a very, very strong business going forward.

The 17 million iPads was up 84% year-over-year and we've now shipped over 84 million, this is as of the end of last quarter, iPads, which if you look at that on a trajectory rate, it took us more than twice as long to achieve that on iPod and a third longer on -- or we achieved it in a third less time on iPad than iPhone. We feel really, really good about our momentum in the space.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yep.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank, Andy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon. Tim, I know you just talked a little about the iPad but is there -- you gave a little bit more information on the iPhone. Could you talk a little bit more about just what segments have been driving, you mentioned a little bit of education. Is it US consumer, US corporate market, is it channel fill in other markets, any more kind of feedback for us to navigate how to model this for the few quarters.

TIM COOK: Sure, Gene. We're seeing -- with an 84% up year-over-year, we're seeing triple digit growth rates in many, many geographies. Generally speaking, the international markets in the aggregate are extremely strong, in the triple digits internationally. The US is a bit lower but I think it's important to keep in mind that the US was on a faster adoption curve with iPad, and so we're thrilled with the numbers everywhere. Latin America's tripling.

We're seeing growth out of countries that are -- that border on being shocking in terms of the growth rate. We would not have dreamed of shipping over 17 million last quarter and feel very, very good about it.

GENE MUNSTER: That's helpful. Did you give -- maybe I missed it, but did you give an Apple TV number for the quarter, and any kind of updated thoughts on how you're thinking about that going forward.

TIM COOK: It's a good question. I didn't give it, but I can. We sold 1.3 million last quarter. This was up over 170% year-over-year. And it brings our fiscal year to 4 million units, which is pretty incredible.

It's still at a level that we would call it a hobby. But we continue to pull the string to see where it takes us. We're not one to keep around projects that we don't believe in, and so there's a lot of people here that are believers in Apple TV and we continue to invest in it and see where it will take us.

GENE MUNSTER: So you don't do hobbies for the sake of hobbies, you do it to hope to get to be something bigger?

TIM COOK: That's right. We do it because we think we can -- it will lead us somewhere. And so we'll see. But I think the -- 4 million is not a small number. It's small relative to iPads and iPhones, perhaps, but it's not a small number and there's a lot of believers in it.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yep.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yes, thank you. The first question is around ASPs. The iPad and the iPhone, the blended ASPs seem to have declined a little more this quarter versus the prior quarters. Is that a function of the product portfolio or Apple just testing price elasticity as you expand into the emerging markets?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Hi, it's Peter. The iPhone ASP, we don't talk specifically about iPad and iPhone ASPs, but I would like to give you a little bit of color this quarter. Because they did change some sequentially and in the case of the iPad year-over-year. Beginning with the iPhone, the ASP was down due to a higher mix of lower priced models and a stronger US dollar. And that was the case generally on a sequential and a year-over-year basis.

Regarding the mix, we believe that this was largely driven by all the new product rumors, economic conditions, particularly in Europe. And we had a change in the ending inventory by model that also influenced the ASPs.

For the iPad, it was down more year-over-year than it was sequentially. The year-over-year decrease was really attributable to four things. We had a higher mix of lower priced models. We reduced the price of the iPad 2 to $399. With our expanded distribution, we had a higher mix of indirect sales this year than we did a year ago. And the dollar impacted us as well.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay, thank you, Peter for that. Tim, I want to shift gears longer term. You talked earlier about hobbies and their relevance. What about Passbook? I'm not trying to imply that it's a hobby, but could Passbook be perceived as kind of a steppingstone to Apple having a greater role in a digital wallet type of infrastructure.

TIM COOK: I wouldn't want to comment specifically on that point. But Passbook in general is a very key feature. I think all of us have found that we were getting many passes and many tickets and so forth that were scattered all over, maybe boarding passes, et cetera, they were scattered all over our iPhones in different apps. And so Passbook does an incredible job of pulling all of those to one place. Whether it's offers or passes or tickets or whatever it may be.

And so it's an important feature of iOS 6. I wouldn't want to speculate about where it might take us.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yep.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Chris Whitmore, Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks very much. I wanted to follow up on the pricing question and ask specifically around the iPad, as to whether or not you think the lower price point drove elasticity of demand for that product? In other words, were your sales incrementally higher, or as a result of this economic environment, did you see customers migrate down market to lower priced products because spending is a little tighter these days?

TIM COOK: Chris, it's Tim. The reason that we did it was because we believed that the sales would be incrementally larger, that there was price elasticity, and that there was a buyer that really wanted the best product, and that needed it to be a little less expensive. And so I believe that we saw that. I think our -- I think it did help our sales. I think it's particularly helping in K-12.

The adoption rate of iPad in education is something I've never seen from any technology product in history. Usually education tends to be a fairly conservative institution in terms of buying, or K-12 does, and we're not seeing that at all on the iPad. And so I think it was -- it's been a big help for us. I'm really glad that we did it.

CHRIS WHITMORE: And to follow up, I wanted to ask about the opportunity that you see in India. A few years back you talked about initial investments in China and having cracked the China code. Why hasn't Apple been more successful in India? And what is your outlook for growth in that geography specifically going forward?

TIM COOK: You know, Chris, I love India, but I believe that Apple has some higher potential in the intermediate term in some other countries. That doesn't mean that we're not putting emphasis in India. We are. We have a business there. That business is growing.

But sort of the multi layer distribution there really adds to the cost of getting products to market. And so we're going to continue putting some energies there. But my own perspective is that in the intermediate term there will be larger opportunities outside of there.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Thank you very much.

TIM COOK: Yep.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Chris. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Shaw Wu, Sterne Agee.

SHAW WU, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH: Thanks for having me on. Just a quick question in terms of component availability, particularly new components. Thanks.

TIM COOK: You know, Shaw, it's Tim. We factored supply into the guidance that Peter has given you. Generally, I should say that we have been short of the MacBook Pro with Retina displays.

We ended the quarter with backlog, and we're working really hard to deliver those to customers quickly. And we believe that we'll be in supply/demand balance in August. In terms of new products, I obviously don't talk about new products, nor the parts that are in them. And so sort of a limit to what I can say there, other than anything that we know about, we've obviously included in the guidance. And if we were short of something, you can bet that we would all be spending our energies on trying to mitigate that.

SHAW WU: Okay. Thanks for the color. Just a follow-up. I don't know if you can talk about in terms of for the new iPad with the Retina display, I don't know any constraints there or?

TIM COOK: The iPad, the new iPad ended the quarter in just over the four week line which we associated with our target of four to six weeks in terms of channel inventory. Now, that said, as a reminder, we did not ship the new iPad in mainland China until the quarter that we are now in, in Q4. But in Q3, we feel like we ended in a balanced situation.

SHAW WU: Okay. Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Brian Marshall, ISI.

BRIAN MARSHALL, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Great. Thanks, guys. Clearly Apple's design philosophy has been about building great products as opposed to going in the market and hitting certain price points. How do you think about the opportunities to address maybe some of those opportunities that are down at some of those lower price points with your existing products, without essentially compromising the core features that basically make Apple's products great?

TIM COOK: Brian, it's Tim. Our North Star is to maniacally focus on making the world's best products. And economic turmoil may push us side to side, but we're going to stay on that journey and stay focused on making the best product, and not deviate from that. We've seen it again and again throughout the years that during these type of periods are where we distance ourselves further from people that don't innovate, and it increases the gap between us. That's what we're focused on.

Now, when we can do that and hit more aggressive price points, we're also going to do that. I think you've seen that with what we did with the $399 iPad, just a few months ago, and the iPhone 3GS is free in the United States and in several other countries. And there's been quite a lot knocked off the price of that in certain other markets.

And so, you know, our North Star will be making the best products in the world and that's why we breathe. That's why we live. We're not changing that.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Thanks. And then when you think about how the iPhone has penetrated the planet, obviously we've had some pretty phenomenal success. Some of that success, there's been some downside to that as well with respect to volatility, about rumors and speculation about kind of future products being announced.

And so can you talk a little bit about how you try to manage sort of the iPhone transitions and the carrier ramp as well. Obviously, you mentioned you're not going to be launching any major countries or carriers in the September quarter, but it's widely speculated that we're going to see something later on in the year. So if you could talk a little about how you kind of manage that whole sort of transition/carrier ramp. That would be great. Thank you.

TIM COOK: Brian, we try very hard to keep our product road maps secret and confidential, and we go to extreme -- do extreme activities to try to do that. That, however, doesn't stop people from speculating or wondering and we'll never do that. And so it's the great thing about this country, people can say what they think and so forth. And so I'm not going to spend any energy trying to change that. That's just the environment we're in.

You know, I'm glad that people want the next thing. I'm super happy about it. And there are obviously quite a few that want what we're currently doing as well, as witnessed by the amount of products that we're selling. So I'm not going to put any energy into trying to get people to stop speculating. I don't think it would -- I don't think that's going to amount to anything.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yep.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Brian. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store, as a Webcast on Apple.com/investor and by telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. And please enter confirmation code 1260435. These replays will be available by approximately 5.30 p.m. Pacific time today.

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling, he's at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact either Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570. I'm at 408-974-5420. And thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120807e87o0076d
  


 HD
 Q2  2012 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,070 words
   PD
24 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated second-quarter fiscal-year 2012 earnings-release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, IR CONTACT, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he will be joined by Apple CEO, Tim Cook, and Treasurer Gary Whistler for the Q&Q session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you'll hear during the discussion will consist of forward-looking statements including without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2011, the Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speaks as of their respective dates.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP OF FINANCE, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy.

We are very pleased to report the results of our outstanding second fiscal quarter. We established new March-quarter records for iPhone, iPad, and Mac sales leading to our highest March-quarter revenue and earnings every. Revenue for the quarter was $39.2 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 59%. That's a new record for our March quarter, and is second only to the all-time record revenue we reported in the most recent December quarter.

The year-over-year increase in March-quarter revenue was fueled primarily by very strong growth in iPhone and iPad sales. Operating margin was $15.4 billion, representing 39.3% of revenue. Net income was $11.6 billion, increasing 94% over the prior March-quarter's result. The quarter's net income translated to earnings per share of $12.30.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with our Mac products and services. We established new March-quarter records for both desktops and portables, combining for a total of four million Macs sold. This represents growth of 7% year-over-year compared to IDC's latest published forecast of 2% growth for the global personal computer market in the March quarter.

We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory, which is below our target range of four to five weeks. In February, we released a developer preview of Mountain Lion, the ninth major release of Mac OS X. Mountain Lion will bring popular apps and features from iPads to Mac including messages, notes, reminders, game center, notification center, share sheets, Twitter integration, and Airplane Mary. We expect Mountain Lion to be available from the Mac app store in late summer this year.

Moving to our music products, we sold 7.7 million iPods, compared to 9 million in the year-ago quarter. Total iPod sales were ahead of our expectations, and iPod Touch continued to account for over half of all iPods sold. IPod's share of the US market for Mp3 players remained at over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by NPD, and iPod continued to be the top-selling Mp3 player in most countries we tracked based on the latest data published by Gfk. We ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory.

The iTunes store generated all-time record results with revenue of almost $1.9 billion in the March quarter, an increase of 35% year-over-year, thanks to continued strong sales of music, video, and apps. We now have a catalog of over 28 million songs and 45,000 movies.

I'd now like to turn to iPhone. We were thrilled to sell 35.1 million iPhones compared to 18.6 million in the previous March quarter. That represents 88% year-over-year growth compared to 42% growth for the smartphone market overall in the March quarter based on the latest published estimate from IDC. We experienced very strong iPhone sales growth in all of our segments led by our Asia/Pacific and Japan segments, where sales more than doubled year-over-year.

We continue to see tremendous momentum in greater China where iPhone sales were five times the level of the year-ago quarter, aided by the launch of the iPhone 4S in China in January and the addition of China Telecom as an iPhone carrier in March. iPhone 4S is now available in over 100 countries and is sold through over 230 carriers. We ended the quarter with 8.6 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 2.6 million units which placed us within our target range of four to six weeks of iPhone channel inventory. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessory sales was $22.7 billion during the quarter compared to $12.3 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 85%.

iPhone momentum in the Enterprise has evolved beyond email, calendar, and contacts. iTeam business line managers across industries see the opportunity to leverage both company and employee-owned devices to improve productivity and efficiencies through iOS in-house app development. In fact, the majority of the Fortune 500 companies who have approved iPhone on their networks are members of the iOS Developer Enterprise Program, and are actively deploying in-house applications to their employee base.

Turning to iPad, we were very pleased with sales of 11.8 million iPads during the March quarter compared to 4.7 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 151%. Customers are loving the new iPad with its stunning Retina display, A5X chip with quad-core graphics and the five megapixel iSight camera. The new iPad is now available in over 40 countries. We saw strong growth in sales around the world, with sales more than doubling in each of our segments. Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad accessories during the quarter was $6.6 billion compared to $2.8 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 132%. We ended the quarter with about two million iPads in channel inventory, a sequential decrease of about 300,000 units, which placed us below our target range of four to six weeks of iPad channel inventory.

The education market's interest in iPad continues to grow. In the March quarter, we sold more than two iPads for every Mac to our US K-12 customers, while also generating a record quarter for Mac sales. The San Diego school district purchased 10,000 iPads in the March quarter and plans to purchase over 15,000 more in the June quarter for middle school and high school programs. iPad continues to open doors to new customers with whom Apple previously had no relationship. As we enter the K-12 institution buying season we're hopeful that iPad will be a popular choice.

iPad's momentum in Business and Government also continues to build. The United States Air Force, Air Mobility Command, is deploying thousands of iPads to serve as electronic flight bags, storing technical publications and operations information for flight crew members and trainers. Companies such as Bechtel and BellFlower Baby are using iPads in the field for project management and viewing blueprints. Thousands of iPads are being deployed as mobile sales tools by companies such as Roche, Amgen, Bayer, and Daiichi Sankyo.

Combining iPhone, iPad, and iPod Touch, we surpassed 365 million cumulative iOS device sales, selling more than 50 million in the March quarter. The iOS ecosystem continues to expand and thrive with stores in more than 120 countries. The app store now offers more than 600,000 apps including over 200,000 apps specifically for iPad. We were very excited to announce the download of the 25th billionth app in March, less than four years after the launch of the app store. And iCloud is off to an incredible start, currently with more than 125 million customers signed up since its launch in October.

I'd now like it turn to the Apple retail stores, which also generated record March-quarter results. Revenue was $4.4 billion, an increase of 38% over the year-ago quarter, and was second only to the record quarterly revenue generated in the December quarter. The stores experienced very strong year-over-year growth in iPad and iPhone sales and they sold 826,000 Macs compared to 797,000 in the year-ago quarter. And about half the Macs sold in our stores during the March quarter were to customers who have never owned a Mac before.

We opened two new stores in the quarter, including our first Netherlands store in Amsterdam and a beautiful new store in Houston. We exited the quarter with 363 stores, nearly one-third of which are outside the United States. With an average of 361 stores open, average revenue per store was $12.2 million compared to $9.9 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 23%.

Segment margin reached a new March-quarter record of over $1.1 billion, which was 26.1% of retail revenue. We welcomed 85 million visitors to our stores during the quarter compared to 71 million visitors in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 19%. That translates to an average of 18,000 visitors per store per week.

Total Company gross margin was 47.4%, which was 540 basis points higher than our guidance. About half this difference was driven by lower than expected commodity and other costs, about a quarter was due to stronger than expected revenue and product mix, including 35 million iPhones, and the remainder was due to some one-time items that we don't expect to recur in the June quarter. Operating expenses were $3.2 billion and included $361 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $148 million.

Turning to cash, our cash plus short-term and long-term marketable securities totaled $110.2 billion at the end of the March quarter compared to $97.6 billion at the end of the December quarter, a sequential increase of $12.6 billion. And about $74 billion of the cash was offshore at the end of the March quarter. Cash flow from operations was $14 billion. As we indicated last month, subject to Board declaration, we expect to announce a dividend of $2.65 per share when we report our third-quarter results in July. And we will provide information on the record and payment dates at that time.

As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be about $34 billion compared to $28.6 billion in the June quarter last year. We expect gross margin to be about 41.5%, reflecting approximately $70 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $3.3 billion, including about $385 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $175 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.25%. We are targeting EPS of about $8.68.

In closing, we're extremely pleased with our record March-quarter performance, with earnings nearly doubling year-over-year. The new iPad is off to a tremendous start and is our fastest iPod rollout ever. We're thrilled with the global success of the iPhone 4S which is now available in more than 100 countries including China. We remain very confident in our strategy, and we're very excited about the fabulous new products in our pipeline. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter. We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one followup, please. Operator, may we have the first question?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Katie Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATIE HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: As it relates to the June quarter revenue guidance, it implies a sequential down tick that is worse than the guidance message you provided over the last three years. So can you just talk about some of the headwinds sequentially you see on the top line in the June quarter relative to March?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Katie, it's Peter. The manufacturing ramps for the iPhone 4S and the new iPad were extremely successful for us. They yielded the highest launch supply and the fastest country rollouts for these product families that we've ever had. As a result, we were able to fulfill demand in the March quarter rather than the June quarter this year, and that generated revenue of over $39 billion. Therefore, unlike last year, we expect a sequential decline in revenue this year. I'd highlight five primary factors that have influenced our thinking. The first, the iPhone channel inventory changes. As I discussed in my prepared remarks, we increased our iPhone channel inventory by about 2.6 million units in the March quarter this year, and we exited within our target inventory range of about four to six weeks. Last year, we continued to add new countries into the June quarter, and we built an additional 700,000 units of iPhone channel inventory last year in the June quarter. So the combination of these channel builds in the March quarter of this year and the June quarter of last year will impact the sequential comparisons from this year to last.

The second factor. Fabulous iPhone 4S execution. As we told you in January, we exited December with significant iPhone 4S backlog which led to a huge January. We launched China and 20 other countries, also in January, which completed the rollout of the iPhone 4S into all the countries where iPhone is currently shipping. And as I said before, we exited the quarter within supply and demand balance.

The third factor, our new iPad execution was also fabulous. We had an incredible start with the new iPad. We launched with significant supply, leading to sales of three million units in the first couple of days, which was -- and also the fastest country rollout ever. We therefore were able to satisfy much more of the demand for the new iPad in the March quarter this year compared to the iPad 2 in the March quarter last year. This resulted in a shift of iPad volume into March this year versus last, and it will also affect the sequential compares this year to the last.

Fourth, we decreased the entry price of the entry iPad to $399. And finally, the last factor to point out, the US dollar has strengthened recently, and we expect this to have an impact on the sequential compare, especially versus last year when the dollar weakened against most currencies over the comparable time periods. We've just reported the most amazing March quarter Apple has ever had. We feel very, very good about our business and our new product pipeline.

KATIE HUBERTY: Just as a quick follow-up to number four, the decrease in the iPad price. You already saw 7% sequential decline in March, which suggests that the uptick of the lower priced iPad 2 was pretty phenomenal in March. Is that the right way to read it, and what does that demand tell you about the potential to move to lower price points on the iPad over time? And see significant incremental demand?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Katie, we're just learning about the elasticity of demand and the $399 price point. It's doing well, but I have to tell you the new iPad is on fire, and we're selling them as fast as we can make them. So we'll learn more over this quarter, especially as we get through the education buying season which looks terrific for us, especially on the iPad.

KATIE HUBERTY: Thanks. Congrats on the quarter.

OPERATOR: Richard Gardner, Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I recognize that you outgrew the market in Macs yet again. But I did want to get your views on the slowdown and your growth rate within the category, and what factors you would attribute that to. Is it product transition related, were the inventories down quarter-over-quarter, iPad cannibalization, any color you could provide would be helpful. Thanks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Yes, Rich. It's Tim. As you said, we did outgrow the market, Macs grew about 7% where the market grew about 2%. This is the 24th straight quarter that we've outgrown the market, so we're extremely pleased with that. The compare to last year is largely affected by the fact that we changed the bulk of our portable line or the MacBook Pros in the February timeframe of 2011. So it's a very tough compare. Specifically, the portables last year were up 53% year-on-year, and obviously that -- so that compare was very difficult. If you look at it sequentially, you also have to factor in that we had 14 weeks in the December quarter, and so the 26% year-over-year growth in the December quarter is probably more like 17% when you factor out that 14th week. So yes, I think there was some cannibalization from iPad, and the market is slow. But the much, much larger factor and in fact it might be the vast majority of the differences, the compare to a year ago.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein & Company.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I was wondering if you could talk more broadly just about what you might be learning about lower price points on both the iPhone and iPad. I know it was asked earlier, but was the decrease in iPad price exclusively mix related or is it further broadening of your channel to indirect partners? But more broadly, Tim, maybe you could talk about elasticity, what you're learning about customer preferences for lower priced offerings on both the iPhone and iPad, and I do have a follow-up, please.

TIM COOK: Sure. Tony, on the iPad 2, with the changing the entry price to $399. We're actually thrilled with the results that we've seen, although as Peter said, it's only been a few weeks. And so it's too early to make a -- come to a clear conclusion but from what we are seeing, this unlocked some education demand that is probably more price sensitive customer. Also in several other countries, there was a marked change in demand at that price point. And so on the early going, we feel great about it.

But I'd also point out that the new iPad is -- was supply constrained last quarter for the full three weeks or so it was shipping. And is actually still constrained. And so the mix of the new iPad to the iPad 2 we're not certain of what that is yet. But we are certain with what we've seen so far that the absolute sales of iPad 2, at least in the early going, is very exciting. On the iPhone, we continue to be very happy with the moves that we made in pricing just a few months ago on the iPhone 3GS and the iPhone 4. And both of them contributed to our ability to achieve $35 billion in sales, which is our second-highest quarter of all time.

TONI SACCONAGHI: As a second question, I was wondering if you can talk about how you think about the markets for tablet and PC devices going forward. I think you've been fairly clear about saying that you believe that tablets will eclipse PCs in volume at some point. And I think you've also said they're somewhat discreet markets. There seems to be a lot of work, particularly on PC-based platforms towards trying to combine the PC and tablet experience going forward, and in part because Windows 8 will be able to -- is a touch-based operating system, as well.

Can you comment about why you don't believe the PC or the ultrabook and tablet markets or your MacBook Air and tablet markets won't converge? Isn't it realistic to think in a couple of years we're going to have a device that's under two pounds with great battery life that we can all carry around and open as a notebook or close up in a clever way and use as a tablet? Can you comment on why you don't think that product might not come or why you believe these markets are separate?

TIM COOK: Well, I think Toni, anything can be forced to merge. But the problem is that the products are about tradeoffs. And you begin to make tradeoffs to the point where what you have left at the end of the day doesn't please anyone. And you can converge a toaster and a refrigerator, but those thing are probably not going to be pleasing to the user. And so our view is that the tablet market is huge, and we've said that since day one. We didn't wait until we had a lot of results. We were using them here, and it was already clear to us that there was so much you could do. And that the reasons that people would use those would be so broad.

And that's precisely what we've seen. The iPad has taken off not only in consumer in a meaningful way, but in education and in enterprise, and it's sort of everywhere you look now. And the applications are so easy to make very meaningful for someone. And there's such an abundance of those that as the ecosystem gets better and better and as we continue to double down on making great products, I think that the limit here is nowhere in sight.

We've now -- through last quarter, I should say, which is just two years after we shipped the initial iPad, we've sold 67 million. And to put that in some context, it took us 24 years just to sell that many Macs and 5 years for that many iPods and over 3 years for that many iPhones. And we were extremely happy with the trajectory on all of those products. So I think iPad, it's a profound product. The breadth of it is incredible. And the appeal of it is universal. And so I'm -- I could not be happier with being in the market, and the level at which we're innovating in both the product and the ecosystem here is incredible.

Now in terms of the market itself, the IDC and our Gardner, Forester had some numbers out there. I think Gardner is saying there's around 325 million or so by 2015. Forester is 375 million. So we're around there. Basically they're in the mid-300 millions which is about where the PC market is today. And 2015 is only three years from now. So I think even the more formal predictors outside of us are beginning to see these lines cross. And so I strongly believe that they will.

Now, having said that, I also believe that there is a very good market for the MacBook Air. And we continue to innovate in that product, but I do think that it appeals to someone that has a little bit different requirements. And you wouldn't want to put these things together because you'll wind up compromising in both and not pleasing either user. Some people will prefer to own both. And that's great, too. But I think to make the compromises of convergence, we're not going to that party. Others might, others might from a defensive point of view particularly. But we're going to play in both.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Tim, there's been quite a bit of concern both in the press and within the investment community around carrier subsidies. And I think the concerns are generally twofold. First, that carriers will attempt to stretch out the replacement cycle, and second, that over time carriers across the globe will attempt to reduce subsidies significantly. How do you think about this risk? And do you think there are factors that could pressure subsidies going forward? And how would that impact Apple?

TIM COOK: Well, Bill, our focus is on making the very best smartphone in the world. And a phone that delivers a -- just an off-the-charts user experience that customers want to use every day of their lives. And at the end of the day, I think the carriers, the vast majority of carriers, or maybe even all carriers want to provide what their customers want to buy. And that's what they're motivated for. So the most important thing by far is for Apple to continue making great products that customers want. And we are deeply committed to doing this and are innovating at a rate and pace that's unbelievable in this area.

From the carrier's perspective, I think it's important to remember that the subsidy is not large relative to the sum of the monthly payments across a 24-month contract period. And any delta between iPhone and maybe another phone is an even smaller level of difference. And the iPhone has some distinct advantages for the carrier over competing smartphones. For example, many of the carrier executives have told me the churn for iPhone customers is the lowest of any phone they sell in their whole -- in all of the phones they carry. And that has a significant, direct financial benefit to the carrier. Also our engineering teams work extremely hard to be efficient with data, and differently than some others. And we believe that as a result of this, that iPhone has far better data efficiency compared to other smartphones that are using sort of an app-rich ecosystem.

Finally, and this is most important, is that iPhone is the best smartphone on the planet to entice a customer who is currently using a traditional mobile phone to upgrade to a smartphone. This is by far the largest opportunity for Apple, for our carrier partners, and is a great, fantastic experience for the customer. So there's a win-win-win there. So I think all of these factors are -- some of these factors are missed in this general discussion of subsidy.

BILL SHOPE: That's helpful. Thank you. One more follow-up question, if I could. I appreciate the user stats you gave us on iCloud. Can you give us any color now that you -- it's been out for a few months on how consumers are actually using iCloud? And in particular, are you seeing a big uptick in iTunes Match and paid storage additions, and how should we think about that?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, it's Peter. Customers are using all the features of iCloud. The response has been terrific. Feedback has been terrific. Pickup on storage is occurring, but it's growing because we've just launched iCloud in October, and we've now got over 125 million users that have come on to the service since then. And they're building up documents and music and other things that they want to store. But I think storage growth will come more over time.

Our real desire here was not about selling more storage. We think Match is a great product, and we recommend that everybody use it. But it's a paid-for service. We just really wanted to increase the customer delight over the entire ecosystem and platform of our iOS devices and in the Mac. That's why we've done iCloud, and we just couldn't be happier that just a couple months into this there's more than 125 million users around the world on iCloud.

BILL SHOPE: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon, and you have my congratulations. If you could dig a little bit more into what's going on in China, I know you gave high-level numbers, but is this increased distribution points, is it just price elasticity of lower priced 3GS, is it more people in China having money, all of the above? Anything you can tell us to explain the vertical growth?

TIM COOK: Yes, Gene, it was an incredible quarter in China. The revenue was record, was record at $7.9 billion in greater China. Which is up over three times year-over-year, and brings the first-half revenue for greater China to $12.4 billion. That compares to a full year last year of $13.3 billion. So it's -- it is mind-boggling that we could do this well. Part of this was the pent-up demand for iPhone 4S. As you know, we launched mainland China in January of this year, and so China was not able to get into the Q1 period so all of that is in Q2. We also have very strong demand for iPad 2. We have not shipped in mainland China yet the new iPad, although we are shipping in Hong Kong.

And so it's a combination of these things and the halo that both of these products have produced for the Mac is also incredible. Mac was up over 60% year-over-year. And that compares to a market rate of growth of about 6%. We have expanded point of sales. On a year-over-year basis, Mac is up 70%, but still only 1,800 for all of greater China. So there's obviously a lot more opportunity there. iPhone, we're up over 11,000, which is 138%. But 11,000 is a much smaller number than we have in the US, and obviously China will in the next few years be a bigger opportunity. iPad is only in 2,500 points of sale. So yes, we've expanded. We've expanded a lot. However, there is a lot of headroom here in our view.

GENE MUNSTER: Was the iPhone mix in China different than the rest of the world, or how was it different?

TIM COOK: I don't have that in front of me. But my recollection is that it wasn't materially different. But keep in mind that iPhone 4S just launched in -- within the quarter. And so usually when a new product launches within the quarter, you would expect it to mix fairly much toward the new product.

GENE MUNSTER: One final quick question. iTunes' content, it seems that there's a logjam to getting more TV shows and movies and the rentals. It's been a little bit of a slow pace of improvement. How important is getting better content on iTunes and what's going to break that logjam?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, it's Peter. We're actually thrilled with the rate that we're adding content into iTunes. This is something that we have to do country by country. So it takes a bit of time to put in place. We have the largest catalogs of songs and movies available anywhere. Over 28 million songs. And this led to almost $1.9 billion of revenue in the March quarter, which was up 35% year-over-year. So we're thrilled with the progress that we're making in iTunes and customers love it.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Tim, the other big issue outside of the subsidy question that you just answered a couple calls ago was regarding shortages. There's talk about potential Qualcomm shortages into the next couple quarters and potential constraints even at year end for some pretty neat products that it might be good for you to have in some products down the road. I know you don't comment on future products, but this is a big concern. Can you talk directionally about whether you expect long term to get more than your fair share of product and what you need? And do you see any bottlenecks on the horizon that are major in that department or any component down the line over the long term?

TIM COOK: Tough question to answer, Ben. Obviously we're aware of the lithography transition issue that you mentioned, the 28-nanometer. We currently do not use 28-nanometer parts. But as you also know, we don't comment about future products, so I can't talk about the future part. Generally outside of this, we work very closely with our supplier partners, and do everything that we can do to get supply and sometimes we're successful with that, and sometimes we're not. And so you can bet that we are focused on anything that we think may impact us in trying to push every button within our disposal to work on it.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Well, I appreciate that. And then my follow-up is regarding Walmart. They were actually just in our building at a conference here talking about how they're moving from one store in Arkansas now to 25 stores. And they seem really pleased with the store within a store concept. How is it going, and when can you be in all 10,000 stores?

TIM COOK: There's no plan to be in 10,000. And so we're trying some things. And as you know, that doesn't include the Mac. So we're trying some things and seeing how it goes. They've been a very good partner for us on iPod and have been selling iPods for a while. And are an increasingly more substantial partner in the iPad space as well, and an evolving partner on iPhone. And so we're working with them and enjoy working with them. And hope to continue expanding.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thank you very much, Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman, Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Tim, for you I think, could you add some more specifics on iPhones in Asia/Pacific including China. Is supply/demand imbalanced there, or can that be helped? And then more broadly, with iPhones getting increased inventory of 2.6 million units, will that be -- will that in fact go down in the June quarter? Is there any comments you could provide there? And then I have a follow-up, please. Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes. Let me start with your last question. On the 2.6 million, our desire, just to be very clear on this, our desire was to increase inventory, channel inventory across the quarter. As you might recall, we ended with only six million units in the channel coming out of December because we were extremely backlogged. And this is on 4S specifically. Our target is to be between 4 million and 6 million. The addition of the 2.6 million allowed us to get within that range by the end of the quarter. And so we feel that we exited the quarter as supply and demand balance. Because our execution of the ops team was so good, the vast majority of the supply/demand in the different countries was reached by the end of January. And so we had the mother of all Januaries with really getting out of the vast majority of the iPhone 4S backlog and launching China as well. So it was an incredible, incredible start of the quarter for us. Your other question was --

KEITH BACHMAN: On China specifically. It sounds like China can be a helped -- it sounds like China is sill supply/demand imbalanced. But I wanted to see if you could add some color there in terms of iPhones.

TIM COOK: China is not supply/demand imbalanced on iPhone. On iPad, worldwide we're supply constrained on the new iPad. Both coming out of last quarter and to give you a current view, we're still supply constrained on the new iPad.

KEITH BACHMAN: Got it.

TIM COOK: Demand has been incredibly robust, and we are selling them as fast as we can make them, as Peter mentioned earlier.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay.

TIM COOK: In China, I believe on a macro basis, China has an enormous number of people moving into higher-income groups, middle class, if you will. And this is creating a demand for goods, not just Apple's but other companies' goods, as well. So I think there's a tremendous opportunity for companies that understand China. And we're doing everything we can to understand it and serve the market as good as we can.

KEITH BACHMAN: Certainly seems so. Tim, through my follow-up, from Bill Shope's question, there have been some changes in Spain in particular on the behavior of the carriers and the economics. And Vodafone has actually changed some of their subsidy levels. It's only been about 30 days or 35 days, but have you seen any changes in demand levels in the Spanish market as a consequences of some of the activities of the carriers? And that's it from me. Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes. Spain has been weak for us and probably more broadly for many companies. Our revenues grew in Spain last quarter, but materially less than we grew in Europe or worldwide. However, that wasn't cause and effect related to the issue you're on. Spain is just in a I think terrible economic situation. And so I sort of look at that as an unusual case. To be clear about what was done is I think there's also some noise in the pipe on this one. What the carriers did was they still have subsidies for their existing customers. And I don't want to talk about what the -- their existing customer to new customer ratio is. But you can find out numbers from different parts of the world and model that. They pulled subsidies on new customers, and so it wasn't a pull of all subsidies, it was a pull of subsidies from new -- and all carriers in that market did not do that. A couple of the carriers did. So I wouldn't necessarily use that as a proxy for the world I guess is my point.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Peter, could you provide a little more framework or context for us in terms of understanding how the segments dovetail with the 13% sequential revenue decline and the guidance? In terms of that bogey, what product segments could be higher in terms of decline or less than that decline? And Tim -- sorry. Go ahead.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. For iPhone, we would expect to have a year-over-year increase and a sequential decrease for the reasons that both Tim and I discussed. We've built channel inventory in the March quarter, and we are exiting March in supply and demand balance. And we have a huge January. And for iPad, we would have -- expect to have a significant year-over-year and sequential increase in sales.

And I want to put something out just so it gets out on the call in case it's not asked. Talk a little about the gross margin guidance that we provided for the June quarter. We're pleased to be providing gross margin guidance of 41.5% for the quarter. We expect about two-thirds of the sequential decline to be primarily driven by a higher mix of iPads and Macs, a full quarter of selling the current iPad lineup, and a loss of leverage on the sequentially lower revenue. And we would expect the remainder of the difference to be primarily driven by the items benefiting the March-quarter gross margin that we don't expect to recur in June.

NANCY PAXTON: Mark, did you have a second question?

MARK MOSKOWITZ: In terms of your flexibility or versatility, you've been flexible here recently in terms of your cash usage as well as should providing more color or commentary during your earning calls. I was wondering how we should think about opportunities for incremental flexibility as it relates to patent disputes. Is there a point where Apple maybe feels it reasonable to settle and just continue out-innovating and out-gunning the competition rather than waging ongoing litigation? Are there opportunities with that?

TIM COOK: I've always hated litigation and I continue to hate it. We just want people to invent their own stuff. So if we could get some kind of arrangement where we could be assured that's the case in a fair settlement on the stuff that's occurred, I would highly prefer to settle versus battle. But the key thing is that it's very important that Apple not become the developer for the world. We need people to invent their own stuff.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mark. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research Group.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: My first question is just going back to iCloud. Perhaps, Tim, you could talk a little bit more about feedback from customers. Curious average number of devices of customers that customers are putting up or maybe percent of users attaching more than one device. What's the initial feedback? And then I have a follow-up.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shannon, it's Peter. I don't want to frustrate you, but we have, of course, the data that you're asking for, but we don't want to help our competitors. So it's not something that we're going to provide probably. The feedback that we're getting from customers on iCloud is off the charts. They're loving it. And the fact that we can be here in a conference call with you in April, just five or six months after introducing the service and have 125 million people around the world using it every day I think speaks for itself.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And then my follow-up question is just on R&D. I mean, it was up 45%. It's over $800 million now. I'm curious, was a chunk of the growth from the acquisitions you've made or anything you can tell us in terms of your thoughts on R&D and investment levels because it's definitely been ramping, which I guess bodes for good products coming in the future.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we view this as a good thing. We are investing in engineering to continue to bring out the most innovative products in the world to delight customers. We are making investments in our hardware and software engineering teams. We're shipping the best products that Apple has ever shipped today. And we've got some fabulous new products in the pipeline. So I'm very confident in the return that we're going to see on these investments.

SHANNON CROSS: You used to give an idea of percentage of software to percentage of hardware. Is there anything you can give there?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shannon, I'm sorry. I don't have that in front of me.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. The next question, please.

OPERATOR: Shaw Wu, Sterne Agee.

SHAW WU, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH: Just a quick clarification. I understand you disclosed China in terms of the 4S shipping along with 21 countries early in January. What about China Telecom specifically, when did that launch?

TIM COOK: Shaw it's Tim. We launched with China Telecom in March, in early part of March. And we were at a supply/demand balance with them prior to the end of the quarter. We're very happy to be working with them.

SHAW WU: Okay. Thanks. Great quarter.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Shaw. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Scott Craig, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

SCOTT CRAIG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Peter, on the OpEx side that's an area where you guys have been getting a fair amount of leverage if you look year-over-year, it's down pretty significantly as a percentage of sales. So I'm just curious on your thoughts going forward, maybe not just next quarter but how do you think about the OpEx leverage longer term. Tim, can you just take us through the components like you do on most quarter calls, and where you're seeing some pricing better than expected and maybe worse than expected and put that in the context of going forward, as well? Thanks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Got it. It's Peter. We are -- as I discussed in Shannon's question, investing in R&D to introduce the most innovative products in the market. We are also spending on marketing, advertising, opening more of our own retail stores and expanding our indirect channels around the world to increase sales. And we're investing in infrastructure to support our growth and also stock-based comp for our employees. We are very confident in the investments that we're making. We're thinking about the long term and we're confident in the returns that we're going to get on these investments.

TIM COOK: Scott, in terms of component cost for the quarter we just finished, Q2, component costs were better than we had planned. And this assisted us in exceeding our gross margin guidance, as Peter talked about earlier. Displays in NAND flash drove the majority of the favorable commodity cost benefit. In terms of the June quarter and what we factored into our guidance, NAND and mobile DRAM supply continued to exceed demand, and because of that we expect pricing will continue to be favorable. For most LCDs, we expect pricing to stabilize as the market moves to a supply/demand balance. The hard drive market has moved to a supply/demand balance, and we expect market pricing to decline, but will still be higher than the pre-flood level from the tragedy in Thailand. Most other components are expected to fall in line with or somewhat faster than historical trends.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Scott. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Kulbinder Garcha, Credit Suisse.

KULBINDER GARCHA, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: (inaudible) You say two-thirds of the sequential gross margin decline was basically due to product mix, did I hear that right? Can you clarify that because it seems like quite a rapid drop. I'm just wondering how much conservatism is in your gross margin guidance. Then I have a follow-up for Tim afterwards.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Kulbinder, the two-thirds that I talked about, the sequential decline we see as being driven by a higher mix of iPads and Macs, the full quarter of selling the current lineup of the iPads or the current iPad lineup, and then a loss of leverage on the sequentially lower revenue. So those three factors we see driving two-thirds of the sequential decline.

KULBINDER GARCHA: Okay. Great. And then Tim, just a question on the enterprise side. You mentioned a couple of times how the iPod is being taken into new markets and new verticals but it's because of the price point of the innovation. I'm just wondering specifically what resources are Apple dedicated to have a much more direct relationship with the enterprise. Can you speak about what's changed in the last 6 or 12 months and what you think you need to do to become a more credible or significant enterprise player.

TIM COOK: Initially our focus was on working with the Fortune 500 and the Global 500 to get the iPad certified for their particular enterprise. And I'm pleased to report that 94% of the Fortune 500 are testing or deploying iPads and 75% of the Global 500 are testing or deploying iPad. These numbers are just off the charts for a product that's only 24-months old. So we are moving our focus away from this and focusing on penetration within these accounts. Peter alluded to some of the wins that we had had in his opening comments. The incredible things about these are that they span across many verticals through government, through education, and many different functions within the enterprise. It's absolutely the most broad-based product I have ever seen in my whole career in terms of adoption rate into the enterprise. And so yes, this means that we're applying more resources in testees and salespeople to interact directly with these customers. We also work with our carrier partners and our reseller partners in delivering both the products and services that are wrapped around that to these customers.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Kulbinder. Could we get the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Chris Whitmore, Deutsch Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: If I take your revenue guidance and the comments you made around gross margin at face value, it seems to imply that you expect iPhone unit sales to be down about 10 million units quarter-on-quarter. First, is that in the right ballpark? And secondly, are you just being conservative with respect to the outlook, or have you seen a change in the end-demand environment for the phone?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Chris, let me sort of go in reverse order. We are incredibly confident in our business, our strategy, and what we're doing. When we give you guidance, we give you guidance that we have reasonable confidence in achieving. And finally, we do expect a sequential decline in iPhone sales driven by the fact that we built 2.6 million units of channel inventory in the March quarter which we needed to do. We are now within our target range of four to six weeks. And we entered the March quarter with significant backlog as we talked about in January. And we're able to fulfill that and launch 20 countries in the month of January. So we have immense confidence in what we're doing. And are very pleased with the way our business is performing.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Okay, thanks for that. Follow-up if I could on iPad. It is supply constrained across many geos as you talked about. Is there a specific component issue? Do you have visibility on resolution? When do you expect to be able to meet demand in the iPad?

TIM COOK: It's hard to answer meet the demand. What I am confident about, however, is that we will be able to supply a significant number of iPads during the quarter. And I feel very, very confident about that. It's tough to know precisely that it will balance until you get there. But I'm very confident with the improving supply and that the total number will be very significant.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Chris. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store, webcast on www.Apple.com/investor, and via telephone, the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820. And please enter confirmation code 264-6984. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5.30 PM Pacific Time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions, Joan is at 408-974-4570. I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120508e84o007k9
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Wave Systems Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,869 words
   PD
28 March 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Wave Systems fourth-quarter conference call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, Wednesday, March 28, 2012. I would now like to turn the conference over to Gerry Feeney, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

GERRY FEENEY, CFO, SENIOR VP OF FINANCE, SECRETARY, WAVE SYSTEMS CORP: Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the Company. We caution you that these statements are only predictions and that the actual events or results may differ materially. Additionally, we refer you to the documents the Company files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents identify and describe important factors that can cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements that we may make. At 4 o'clock this afternoon, we released our financial results for the fourth quarter of 2011. These can be found on our website at www.WAVE.com. Please refer to the Company's press release for more details relating to these financial results.

For the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011, Wave's net revenues rose 57% to $11.035 million, compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 net revenues of $7.037 million. During the quarter, licensing revenues increased, primarily the result of a more than $2.4 million year-over-year increase in enterprise server software licensing revenues. Q4 net revenues also included $1.6 million from (inaudible) from SafeEnd operations for the full quarter as Wave's acquisition of SafeEnd was completed at the close of business on September 22, 2011.

Total billings for the fourth quarter of 2011, which included $1.7 million in billings from one of the world's leading international oil and gas companies, as well as a full quarter of SafeEnd billings were $11.526 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 total billings of $14.235 million, which included $8.1 million in billings related to a large global automaker order. As a result of planned and continued investments in the Company's sales and marketing and R&D efforts to support OEM partners in related sales opportunities, as well as increased headcount in sales, marketing, and engineering support services, Wave's total operating expenses increased to $15.766 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, up from $8.175 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Also included in the fourth quarter of 2011 operating expenses were approximately $2.6 million related to the full quarter of SafeEnd operations expense and approximately $1.033 million reflecting adjustments to purchase accounting for the SafeEnd acquisition. The net loss for the fourth quarter was $4.863 million or $0.05 per share compared to last year's fourth-quarter net loss of $1.213 million or $0.01 per share.

The weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010 were approximately 88.545 million shares and 81.209 million shares respectively. To highlight the Company's operational performance on a cash flow basis, Wave reports EBITDAS, which is a non-GAAP measure defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and stock-based non-cash compensation expense. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Wave had negative EBITDAS of $2.779 million compared with a negative EBITDAS of $3.049 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. At December 31, 2011, Wave's total current assets were $11.4 million, which included $3.4 million of cash. Wave's total current liabilities were $13.4 million, which included $6.6 million of short-term deferred revenue with no debt.

And as a subsequent event, in late January 2012, Wave entered into an at-the-market or ATM sales agreement with investment banking firm MLB and Company in which Wave may issue and sell up to $20 million of its Class A common stock from time to time through July of 2014 at prevailing market prices with no discount. These sales would be pursuant to Wave's existing $30 million shelf registration statement. From inception through March 26, 2012 of the ATM, Wave had issued approximately 1.1 million shares of its common stock through this ATM structure at a weighted average price of $2.185 per share, raising net proceeds during the first quarter of 2012 of approximately $2.4 million after deducting offering costs of approximately $73,000. And with that, Steven will highlight some of the key developments for the fourth quarter of 2011.

STEVEN SPRAGUE, PRESIDENT AND CEO, WAVE SYSTEMS CORP: Thank you, Gerry, and thank you, everybody, for joining our call today. I'd like to start today by talking about the progress on the enterprise side of our business, and then we'll spend some time on the OEM and on the expansion in both mobile and the consumer area. So to begin with on the enterprise side, we continue to see growing interest in the trusted computing technologies. I would say over the course of the last now few months and even sort of the last six months, we have seen an expansive growth in the interest of the use of TPM, as well as the deployment of self-encrypting drives. And I think that really provides a very strong foundation for growth for us.

There are today over 0.5 billion TPMs in the market. Many of those devices are not being strongly used yet, and they really provide a tremendous opportunity for the enterprise to move towards a model where we don't have passwords to log in every day. You log in to your machine and your machine logs in to all the services to which you belong. We continue to have very strong interest from the Global 500. In most cases, those accounts are being brought to us through our OEM partnerships and our distribution channel partnerships, and we're working very closely with our distribution channel and OEM partners to help their customers realize the full benefit of trusted computing technologies. Again, both TPMs and self-encrypting drives.

The expansion over the course of both last year and last quarter continues, and I think will continue in a similar manner over the course of the next year. We have a mixture of medium-size accounts that continue on a regular basis that really generate significant momentum and growth, as well as a number of large accounts which tend to spike our billings in one quarter or another quarter, depending on when those accounts are actually closed. So if you look back at the course of last year, our Q1 was relatively light. Q2 was quite strong. Q3 was relatively light. Q4 was very good, and I think we will continue to see some aspects of that pattern going forward, although our pipeline today is substantially stronger than it was a year ago today.

And so we should move to a model where we are actually closing a number of large accounts on a regular basis, as opposed to just one or two a quarter. And so, just overall level of interest in the technologies and the benefits that it provides are very strong. I think that what happens for us is that each one of those accounts that's deploying helps to reinforce the model for the next accounts. I don't believe we have really seen a shortening of the sales cycle yet. But I think we are beginning to see the front edge of the shortening of the sales cycle. It continues to be a decision first to buy hardware and then to buy the server management for that hardware. And I think we are seeing a move towards the hardware being something that gets standardized within procurement much more quickly in its evaluation. There is overwhelming compelling evidence that a self-encrypting drive is by far the best solution for data encryption. And I also think there is compelling evidence that reducing the cost of access to the corporation by binding trusted computing into the device is clearly on the ground. The feedback we have had from our deployment with PWC has been very positive, and we have quite a few accounts who are interested in duplicating that experience.

One of the key areas that we've invested in over the course of the last now six months has been the expansion of our sales efforts in Europe. We really transitioned at the end of the summer last year from a business development team in Europe to a full-fledged sales team. That's been a strong investment for the Company. We've brought on quite a few people. We now have full channel support. We have country sales managers, we have an overall general manager for Europe, and they have been doing a great job. They really got their feet underneath them in fourth quarter, and I think we will see strong effects from the European sales throughout the course of 2012. So, we are very pleased to see that.

I think that engagement is going quite well and the timing was actually quite good in combination with the acquisition of SafeEnd, we were able to leverage the integration of their existing channel experience in Europe and leverage a number of their resources on the ground versus building those resources directly ourselves. And so we've had very good integration of the SafeEnd team on an enterprise basis. We started with an effort to integrate the sales and marketing teams, that progress has gone quite well. I think we will see the effect of that -- we are seeing some of the effect of that -- in first quarter, we will see a much stronger effect of that in second quarter as all of the Wave sales folks were fully trained at the end of the year and into the beginning of the year and really have had their first 90 days to develop customer accounts, et cetera, and we are beginning to see the progress that comes from that. So we're quite pleased to see the growth in that product, and I think that overall, that acquisition has been and will be very positive for our customers and our revenue.

As I move on to the OEM side of the business, we announced in fourth quarter our relationship with Samsung. We are very pleased to have a partnership with Samsung in providing them trusted computing infrastructure. They are a very important manufacturer in the world today in not only PC devices but consumer products as well. And we are helping them to integrate and understand the trusted computing technologies into their available products and we expect to see continued progress out of them over the course of 2012 with first available products relatively soon. And that really is being driven by the efforts by Microsoft to adopt trusted computing much more broadly in Windows 8. There has certainly been some communication by Microsoft, there's a fair amount of information on the web about Microsoft's adoption today of trusted computing in their consumer lines and in their mobile lines. Windows on ARM leverages the trusted platform module as part of their technology, and we really believe that the investment by Microsoft in the support of the trusted computing technologies will really help boost the overall awareness of this technology.

Wave will benefit certainly from the deployment of Windows 8, but I would say fundamentally, if you look at the business today, what we are hoping is that the marketing of trusted computing out of Microsoft for the capabilities that it brings to the platform in encryption, access control, and health of the machine, these are technologies where we can fulfill many of those promises today on Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7. And so as most customers are not going to switch immediately to Windows 8, it always takes time, we believe we will see a substantial increase in both the awareness and utilization of trusted computing technologies in Windows Vista, Windows 7 platforms that are already deployed in the marketplace. So Windows 8 is and will continue to be a very important component of training the whole market, and for the first time, delivering to us in the consumer space, platforms that have TPMs on them. So applications like authentication to your bank account or authentication to some of your more popular Web services leveraging your TPM, we believe will be a very strong use case going forward. But it really takes shipping of the platforms into the consumer space.

Also on the OEM side, we announced partnership with CMS to ship self-encrypting drives as a peripheral, as an external drive with our software bundled in the box. That's been a very positive relationship for us. We just announced it not too long ago. We have a number of customers. All of our existing customers have expressed interest in buying peripheral drives that have the same central management system that they are already managing their PCs with. So we really feel that that's been a very positive relationship and we look forward to expanding that as it goes forward. And we continue to make progress in deployment of trusted computing technology with our existing OEM partners.

I think that overall, the trusted computing space in general is getting a lot more momentum behind it, and Wave is really well-positioned to take advantage of that. And that actually comes I think to really a core point, which is we made a set of decisions last fall to invest in both the expansion of our sales channel and our distribution channels, as well as the expansion in our engineering resources to support the adoption of trusted computing in the mobile market and in the consumer market. We have shown a few of those effects already. We showed at RSA, a trusted platform module in partnership with Trusted Logic, which is a division of Gemalto, supported on an Android platform. And so that becomes a very important piece of the puzzle, which is how do I have a common technology on my PC, on my Windows mobile devices, on my Android devices; and ultimately, we believe on all mobile platforms.

There's not clear indication yet out of Apple, but I think there's a lot of pressure in the direction to have Apple support the same technologies in the space. We will see what happens. I think it's too hard to predict at this point in time, but obviously if showing other major players in the market coming to the trusted computing space, joining the standards body, I think are really good indicators of the growth of momentum around trusted computing. ARM for example recently joined the Trusted Computing Group, and that's a very, very positive sign to having trusted computing broadly supported across all mobile infrastructure.

Now the way TPMs end up in mobile devices will require the actual manufacturers to build the TPM into the device either as software technology running on the secure hardware that is already in the phone or as an extra chip. And so, we are working today with a number of partners to help provide the influence to the mobile manufacturing space to include trusted computing technology really as the mechanism to hold the keys that are needed by the enterprise to secure their relationship with the Cloud. A really good way to think of this in sort of a simple architectural model is the TPM represents the mechanism for subscriber management in hardware to any and all Cloud services. And so, our job is to help key that, help manage the TPM, help manage the consumer experience in that process. But ultimately, it's about you logging in to your device and then your device logs you into all the different services you belong to without you having to have a password for everything.

One of the very important influencers in the trusted computing space has been the US Government. We saw publication of NIST 801-47, it's a special publication about having all the bios components signed. That is now a requirement by the office of Secretary of Defense on all procured machines. That is the first step in doing bios integrity or known devices connected to the network. The second step is NIST 801-55, which is out in draft form which really describes now that you have bios that's actually signed, how do you check those signatures every time a machine connects. This all comes to how do we defend the platform from any type of virus or any type of malware that occurs before the operating system or before the antivirus actually starts. And so really what you're doing is forming the root of trust in the machine, and using that root of trust to log the machine on to the overall global enterprise network.

We have delivered and are in the middle of a pilot phase with a pilot with the Defense Department of our server that implements, it's called Wave endpoint monitor. It's the server that implements the NIST 801-55 capabilities. So that every machine, before it is connected to any service can be validated that it has the right bios integrity within the platform. Those pilots are going very well. We've learned a tremendous amount over the course of the last few months in their implementation, and we expect that piloting process to come to conclusion during the course of the summer. We are today in discussions with quite an array of players within the Government and outside of the government to take advantage of the bios integrity, what Microsoft calls in Windows 8, secure measured boot so that we can roll this out across broader enterprises.

There is a tremendous level of interest for this. Right now, today, I believe we are the only Company that has an operational server in the space. There certainly will be more competition as time goes forward, but we have an interesting lead and it really requires a tight relationship with the OEMs. We for example just recently announced our relationship with AMI Bios to make sure that we can integrate the security capabilities they are doing in the bios, then can be measured by our tools, and reported every time the computer connects.

So the next steps are coming in place on that. I think there's very strong interest in it. I believe it will actually happen much faster than the aspects of trusted computing have in the past because there is as much support behind this today and there is really a clear market demand. Having said that, it's still an interesting challenge out there in the space. I mean, no question that we saw softness over the course of the last three or four months due to the flooding of Thailand, and the availability of drives in the supply chain did not make our life any easier. It made life more complicated in supplying, especially larger transactions. In just the availability of product.

I think we are through most of that at this point in time. Obviously, we have no influence on the drive manufacturers. It is their problem but it seems like the early stage of the process, nobody really knew what was going on and everybody seems to have it under control at this point in time, so we can get much more definitive answers on the availability in time to ship and people seem to be on plan, on time to ship at this point. That was certainly not the case a few months ago.

Finally, I would like to talk a little bit about the consumer space. One of the things that was very clear to us was trusted computing was going to show up in the consumer environment both in mobile and in PCs. And that became clear to us in the middle of last year. And so we decided that we would invest in building a service to support trusted computing in some way, shape, or form in the consumer space. And there really were three choices; payment, access control, and some form of secure communications. And it looked to me that we had for a long time been going after access control, and access control requires that you ship millions of devices before the major players will actually implement support. And that we needed something that was much more viral in nature and could be useful the moment you turned it on.

And so we embarked down a path of secure communications. And we have developed a service that went live in December called Scrambles.com, which is all about providing encryption overlaying the existing social media space. So this will allow yourself or your children to -- everything that they type in to their social media site can be scrambled before it is sent to Facebook or Twitter or LinkedIn or any other services. The service then can't read that message and that message when delivered is read by any friend who is in the group. And this has become a very interesting service. It became clear to us in the fall that we should unbundle it from the hardware requirements because as a stand-alone consumer service, this had real opportunity behind it.

And I think it will be interesting to see how that continues to evolve and develop over the course of the next quarter. The service will get more broadly available. Again, we've learned a tremendous amount in its implementation, and it really ties into a lot of the history of development and research that Wave has done over the last 20 years in the protection and delivery of content, in this case content generated by the individual.

And it will be an interesting place to watch. The early signs are tremendous interest in the technology, and I think the question at the end of the day is one that is very simple, which is how will people adopt and use? It's quite clear that our ability to control our posts online. So that if you post something on Twitter after 90 days, it's only readable by you. That that has some really interesting capabilities in controlling people looking back over your last five years of tweets and deciding if you've ever said something silly. And the opportunity to have control over your content is a very powerful concept.

So it's a unique capability. There really isn't anything like it in the marketplace today. I think we have the right use model and certainly anyone who is interested in playing with it, feel free to go to Scrambles.com and request an invitation and we will send you one. It's an interesting service and I think it will offer us real legs in a space that really has no solutions today, which is how do we help secure and use social media for business in our consumer space in a more secure manner and ultimately in a role in broader media distribution.

So, I think I will wrap up my statements there and move towards questions. It's been a very interesting growth time in the technology. There's a lot of expansion in the marketplace in both the application and use and people really willing to now invest in and deploy trusted computing. So, we are in the right place at the right time. Thank you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Robert Eissler. Please go ahead.

ROBERT EISSLER, ANALYST, ROBERT EISSLER & ASSOCIATES: Hi Steven. First of all, congratulations on the announcement yesterday, the Government announcement and also all the very exciting things you talked about. A few questions. First one is, you spoke about Windows 8, the TPM focus, and the very positive implications for Wave. About how long after it is introduced do you expect Wave to start seeing meaningful revenues as a result of this?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: So I would tell you, I think we are seeing growth today because of it. And the question for any large enterprise that's looking at trusted computing is is this a technology that has traction and is growing in use so if I go invest in it, will it be here five years from today. And anybody who had that question in their mind as of the November timeframe was clearly addressed by Microsoft's announcements; and not so much a big public press release, but a lot of their indications in trade shows and events and PowerPoints, this isn't one comment, this is hundreds of comments from Microsoft on their use of trusted computing within the platform.

And so as I was trying to indicate, I think it's less about how much money do I make because they successfully sold one copy of Windows 8. That certainly is a business opportunity for us, no question, and we will generate revenue from that. But I'm much more focused on how do I service the existing installed base of Windows 7 because most Corporations aren't going to run out the day after Windows 8 ships and say, hey, let's go buy Windows 8 and put it on all the machines. That just doesn't work that way, right. So I would say that just the fact that they are adopting, supporting, endorsing, the key thing for us is that we are able to deliver so Microsoft and Windows 8 is promoting the concept of E drives, which are TCG Opal compliant self-encrypting drives. Excellent. That does nothing to hurt us.

And so if all the sudden a bunch of OEMs decide to ship TCG Opal drives in all their platforms, is it going to be growth from the 1% to 2% that currently buy self-encrypting drives to 20% or is it 50% or is it just 3%? And history dictates that when the OS adopts a technology and recommends it as part of a platform, that we see much broader adoption. So, it's not unreasonable to say that a substantial number, call it a quarter, and that's probably even being a conservative number start to ship with encryption built into the drive. So it's both pieces.

ROBERT EISSLER: Okay. Sounds good. One other question. A number of years ago at an annual meeting, you discussed the remarkably similar timeline of almost all disruptive technologies from introduction to tipping point. You might have even had a chart on it. I don't remember all the details, but I do know we're now about four or five years past the average timeframe. To anyone who follows Wave closely, based on what you said on the call as well, the possibilities are staggering. But for those who judge trusted computing waves strictly on Q-over-Q revenue growth these past couple years, it's been pretty uninspiring. So my question is, how far would you say we are from finally seeing the type of accelerated revenue growth that will make even the most casual follower take notice. Do see this happening second half 2012, first half 2013?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: I think we have two effects that are happening. One effect is that you have yet another Microsoft operating system launch; and certainly, those are -- historically been tremendous opportunities for technology to move from lightweight adoption to heavyweight option. I think the other one that maybe actually more important now is that there is a whole other effect that is brand new, which is the effect of mobile. And so there is no good answer today for how we are going to do hardware security within the phone. There are lots of proprietary solutions, but they are proprietary. And what people are looking for is common, interoperability across their devices. Trusted computing has clearly made enormous progress over the course of the last year in being the way that the enterprise will store keys. So if you think of a SIM module as the way the carrier stores keys and global platform as to how payment is going to be done on the phone, trusted computing will be how the enterprise or everybody else stores keys in the handset. And I would say that train is clearly and solidly on track today.

ROBERT EISSLER: Do have a timeframe?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: This year, we will see a lot of shipment of devices, new ones. But I think you'll see volume next year. So my guess is we are still in a market development year with consistent faster growth that leads up to 2013. I don't think it has dawned on the broader community that is out there yet that what we need is a mechanism that looks like a set-top box for subscriber management throughout Cloud services. This is why when you peel back the onion a little bit and look inside, what we're doing as Scrambles as a service, what we are really doing is saying, if you're going to store data in the Cloud, store it protected. So you the keys, you have the security, you have the trustworthy execution on your device to protect all of that. Well, we kind of know how to deliver that.

But that's going to take some time to continue to mature; not so much from a technical perspective, but from a, I need to have this in the device perspective and in the rest of the industry's head. But this concept that we are feeling uncomfortable with putting all our data in the Cloud, every day there's an article that comes out and says, Did you know who is looking at what? And the reality is, there's really no reason that we can't keep the vast majority of what we put up into the service protected by keys that are on our devices, which means either the consumer or the corporation controls it. So day one it's simple, just message traffic, but it's a lot more of the data than just message traffic.

ROBERT EISSLER: All right. One last question and I will let you go. Any significant near-term revenue drive is on the horizon for next 30 or 60 or 90 days that really look good as far as bridging the cash burn gap?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Yes, clearly the short-term is addressed by the enterprise growth. And we have, I would say a couple of non-recurring engineering type projects, but it's really sales and the enterprise are the margin contributors that bridge the gap. And there's a very good pipeline of accounts. Quite a few are poised to be closed. But we have been in that process now for a number of quarters and they are not the simplest thing to predict.

ROBERT EISSLER: All right. Thank you very much.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Gussnel. Please go ahead.

RONALD MEYER, ANALYST: Hi Steven.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Hi there.

RONALD MEYER: I've got a couple questions for you. First, would be I was wondering on Scrambles, what has the Board budgeted for this business? What kind of revenues are you projecting from the tremendous interest that you're seeing out there?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: So, day one the service will be free for the consumer. So, I will start with a very simple one which as the service is delivered, you as a consumer can go sign-up for free. The economic model for an organization to use it, which means the organization controls the accounts and the keys, we see as a classic subscription service, and it's in the -- it is in the $10 to $20 per year subscription service we think is the right place for it to be. If you were to use a comparable, a Company like Yammer has a service that is out there that's sort of Corporate Facebook, they are at $5 per subscriber per month. And I think that that's at the very high end.

So this is an add-on service that supplements all the other services that you are at. And so, maybe second quarter we see the first couple dollars in revenue in it -- for it. It's probably realistically more third quarter because we're just getting the service to a level where we could actually take revenue on it. From an expense perspective, this started as just a couple person project. It has grown now to a small team. We are still probably in the around $100,000 a month range. And it will stay there until we see substantial growth in the adoption of the service.

If somebody comes in and says, Hey, I want to go promote this to a couple thousand organizations and here's how it's going to go, then I think you go invest in it. We've had a very successful alpha, and the next step is to see the engagement of it from a business perspective. There is a long-term business, which clearly Scrambles makes it possible to charge for content. And the sky's the limit on what you could add -- what you could assert that that revenue model is. But you need your first customers to go to play.

So a really good way to think of this, and I will just describe it in a really simple way. What you're able to construct is a VIP rope, right. It just says that if you want to see this content, you have to have done something. Clearly done something as I could write you a check. But done something can also be, I participated in this marketing program, I showed up at this time of day, whatever. And that model will generate very significant revenues. But you're asking a question that was asked in 1970 when the first person attempted to put a velvet rope on top of television in a purely add-supported model and everybody said, what are you, insane? And it's been an interesting business.

RONALD MEYER: Okay. My second question would be that with all the partners we have in the market moving towards TPMs with Microsoft, has any companies contacted us as a potential buyout? Seeing that we are --

STEVEN SPRAGUE: I'm not so sure I would comment on this. No.

RONALD MEYER: Okay.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: So the question is why, right? And my comment would be very simple in this, which is this is still a business in its emergence, right. And if you were a really big player in the market, what you want to do is buy me when I have a couple billion dollar valuation. Because in the overall scope, for the really big players in the marketplace, that's not too hard. And what you want is a staff -- their brand could cause a pause in the adoption of customers' accounts. And so we are not there yet, where the momentum is such that the customers are just signing up to 100,000 accounts a day and it's growing like wildfire.

In the consumer market, you're just seeing the first consumer hardware shipping and the first mobile hardware shipping. When that traction takes place, then I think the question becomes much more interesting. Of course, for our shareholders, we are a well-positioned company for that kind of growth because at the end of the day, the Company is owned by the shareholders. They have to decide on a price that makes you comfortable. There's nobody here who owns 51% of the Company who can just sell it out from underneath you because they decided they wanted to.

RONALD MEYER: Okay. Fair enough. And the last question I had is about the Board of Directors. We don't see any -- at these prices that Wave stock is at, you would think that you would see the direction you're going, the confidence that you see with Microsoft, the expansion in the TPMs, that you would see like Board of Directors purchasing stock in the open market. I know they get 15,000 options a quarter, and they get their $60,000 or $80,000 year, but it would be nice to see some support and some positive showings to the market that they believe in this Company.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: I understand the request and I guess my general comment on it is, ultimately my Board members have to make decisions about their own personal finances in the way they need to, one. And two, I guess I would rather show progress of the Company not because an insider went and purchased a share of stock; and therefore, somebody is implying that there might be some knowledge that they have of some inside information, and I would rather see somebody who is interested in investing in the stock because I put nice news out that said, US Army is going to adopt trusted computing into mission systems, much more interesting conversation. So I appreciate the request. I'm not so sure that at the end of the day, the right way to position this is that there are outside forces that are validating what we are doing. Because any of the inside forces are short-term play and then you have interesting situations in people's personal lives where they buy stock or sell stock for reasons that are completely unrelated to the progress of the Company one way or the other.

RONALD MEYER: Correct, but all we see are sales rather than purchases. So, my thought is you'd see US Airways, the Chairman bought 0.5 million shares because his stockholders said, you're not investing. So he took his whole salary and threw it in because he believed in the Company That's all I'm saying.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Yes, I understand that. That implies that somebody can afford to put their entire annual salary in; and contrary to popular opinion, that's a personal financial capability that either somebody has or doesn't have. I think it'd be great to be able to contribute my entire annual salary, but my spouse and my children might complain.

RONALD MEYER: Well, I --

STEVEN SPRAGUE: I'm just making a logical point. I appreciate your point. At the end of the day, there is certainly no lack of enthusiasm by our Board for what the Company is trying to accomplish. And I think they have clearly shown that. There have been Board members who have purchased stock in the past. There have been Board members who have sold stock in the past. And we should probably move on. But I view this as, let the Company show its progress in the market. Let me not try and have an artificial adjustment of the stock based on a single individual who should not be in presence of insider information procuring stock as an indicator that he is in presence of insider information.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Joel Achramowicz. Please go ahead.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ, ANALYST, BLAYLOCK & COMPANY: Thank you very much for taking my question. Steve, I just had a couple of housekeeping questions and then I had a strategic question. Why don't we lead with the strategic question. This might be theoretical from Google's perspective, but obviously they are competing with Facebook in the social networking space. And it seems to me they are looking for an edge in order to do so. And when I first heard of Scrambles and you communicated it to me, I was thinking about perhaps the possibility of that firm embracing Scrambles as a way to differentiate itself from Facebook. Facebook being in a very dominant position right now. So I guess my question is, have you had and if you have, have you had discussions with people at Google about perhaps embracing the Scrambles for Google plus?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: We have not specifically. So far, we have kept the service relatively low-key from the major players. We are not looking for them to decide one way or another whether we are successful. I think we need to make sure that we have just enough momentum on our side that we can help them make the right decision. So I am cautious to be too early to the very major brands. Obviously if the major brands went out there and said, we want to adopt it on everything, that is great. But you would not want the reverse. And so I think we need to show some appropriate growth and enthusiasm so that it makes the decision processes easier for them.

Obviously, some people think that if we were to protect the communications that your 13-year-old is typing into Facebook today, that Facebook might view the lack of the ability to be voyeur on your 13-year-olds conversations to be negative to them. I would argue that's not true. I think they're all desperately looking for a privacy mechanism that works, and I think they are all desperately looking for a way to enhance the experience with the customer for a longer period of time. And if we can make you feel comfortable to put your scrapbook up online for 75 years, because you can control whether the content is exposed or not, the way I like to describe it these days is most people don't burn their yearbooks, but they do keep them in their mother's basements. Right?

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: I lost mine.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: And they're really kind of fun when you were 17, it was really cool to have a yearbook, and then you turn 22 and your yearbook goes in your mother's basement. And then when you are like 50, your kids discover the yearbook in mother's basement and it's pretty funny again.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: Absolutely.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: But you have to let it age with a nice fine wine down in the cellar for a while.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: Indeed. It's kind of interesting because all of a sudden everybody is concerned about security and what Facebook is doing and what Google -- of course, Google has had its own problems in that regard. Somewhere down the line, this kind of an encryption capability has got to be somewhat palatable for some as a way to be able to assuage that concern. And there could be parental controls too, right?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Absolutely. But the goal here is to separate your controls. So you don't have to just rely on one brand. They can't get up in the morning and change their mind, which they can do today. This is about splitting the control so that you have to have two organizations that make a real mess of your life before your life becomes a mess. And I think that helps the process. Is it an end-all be-all? No. Is it a very important expansion? Yes. Is anyone else doing it in the marketplace today? Not really.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: This could also have application to incorporate e-mail communications of various sorts too, right? And other communication?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: It has -- so we use -- today, all of our internal development conversations for Scrambles are done on a Yammer site protected by Scrambles as a Cloud service. And so we get all the benefit of a social media tool with all the protections that Wave owns the keys. So we didn't share our content to the Cloud. If the Cloud were compromised, they couldn't read our content. They would have to compromise the Cloud and compromise Wave, that's cool. And that has applications to every single person who typed a tweet in in the last 30 seconds, which is a really big number. So we'll see. It's exciting. The nature of this beast; and I said this before is if a year from now we have 5,000 subscribers, then yawn, it was an interesting exercise, you learned something. If a year from now, you have 50 million subscribers, it will be more fun.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: Maybe a housekeeping question and I will get off the queue here. Gerry, we can always take this offline. Can you just maybe describe the reason for the operating expenses increasing so much? Obviously, you hired some people but any other reasons besides just hiring people? And can we expect that regression to continue into the first quarter? Obviously from a modeling perspective that's a concerned.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Gerry, do you want to comment?

GERRY FEENEY: Yes. So if you look at the non-cash expenses, about $6 million per year increase in the operating expense is due to non-cash expenses. And these are all the interest expenses, where they have amortization of the goodwill from the SafeEnd acquisition and stock options that are awarded to employees at higher prices, they just happen to have an amortization of compensation expense off of a Black Schoal's analysis that distorts and makes the expense higher. On top of that, you have added SafeEnd expenses for the quarter, so you'll see a jump in that, and you have a one-time purchase accounting expense for $1 million during the quarter. So all these elements, we have grown the headcount overall to about 250 people. We have been pretty level at that headcount since the end of the year last year with the acquisition of SafeEnd. And I think we wanted to just utilize the headcount to be as productive as possible as we look at the best way for a return on these assets. So I wouldn't expect to see the same type of ramp-up in expenses. I think we have built a good enough staff of 250 people to provide for revenue opportunities as they come to us. So that we can support the customer.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: Why didn't you include the adjustment, the accounting adjustment in your EBITDAS? I just was interested, it seems like it's a non-cash -- maybe it isn't a non-cash charge.

GERRY FEENEY: Well, the $1 million adjustment is actually showing up if you look at the P&L and the press release for the fourth quarter, it's actually showing up as a fourth quarter operating expense.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: Yes.

GERRY FEENEY: We charge it during the fourth quarter as a correction to prior period errors that took place as far back as 2009 and 2010 for SafeEnd.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: But it is a non-cash charge?

GERRY FEENEY: It is a non-cash charge. And there is more -- when we file our 10K, which will be filed on or before this Friday, there's a whole section discussing this. I don't want to necessarily get into too many of the details before that becomes public knowledge to the entire market, but it gets into greater detail.

JOEL ACHRAMOWICZ: Okay. That's great. That helps. Thanks.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Larry Gordon. Please go ahead.

RONALD MEYER: Hi, Steven.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Hi there. How are you?

RONALD MEYER: I have a couple questions. Good. How are you doing? We've always asked for guidance on these conference calls and we've never really gotten any. However with that said, there's only two or three days left in this quarter. Can you give us some guidance on the first quarter? You've got to have some idea where we are with only three days left in the quarter.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Yes. I would say first quarter has been okay. I haven't had -- you haven't seen a large dollar amount transaction announced. So, I don't see it as substantially different than where we have been in the past on -- the growth continues but is it going to be a knock it out of the park quarter? You don't have the large transaction announced in this quarter that drives that. And I still have a few days left but I don't expect that in this quarter.

RONALD MEYER: Okay.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: I think on the other hand, during the course of this year, if you were to look at the list of accounts that have expressed interest, they are qualified accounts, they are engaged with us on either testing or preparing to deploy the technology, it's substantially stronger this year than it was last. So, I think we are moving into a period of really good growth if not accelerating growth. We have dramatically expanded the sales organization, and we've expanded the product categories, right. So the acquisition of SafeEnd brings us a whole other product category that every one of the Wave salespeople can sell, as well as I have the SafeEnd salespeople and they're also trained to sell the Wave products. And we've had a number of transactions in this quarter that have been Wave people selling SafeEnd and vice versa, and we expect that to actually continue to grow and expand. So I would say the market is in a pretty strong position. As I mentioned in my remarks, we definitely saw some softness that came from drive availability, self-encrypting drives have been an important piece of the growth of our business. And no question we had a couple of customers that were not able to get the drives when they wanted to, which has changed their procurement strategy over the course of these few months.

RONALD MEYER: Very good. Hopefully this year will be -- the bottom line will be better than last year, which was a good year actually. Regarding the Army contract that we just announced yesterday, you said it was a modest dollar amount. Can you tell us if it was over or under seven figures?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Over or under seven figures. It is under seven figures. So, this is the engineering phase of a contract to address data encryption in mobile devices that weigh more than a few thousand pounds. How about that?

RONALD MEYER: Okay.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Okay? So it turns out that mobile things that weigh more than a few thousand tons get lost. They have hard drives in them, and all the same problems that you have with hard drives in things that weigh two pounds, otherwise called the laptop, exist in things that weigh a lot more. And the data is very sensitive. And so what you want to make sure of is that as data is stored in devices, regardless of what those devices are, that aren't personal devices but are mission devices, that the data is encrypted within those devices. And so the first phase of this effort is to address the engineering necessary to support encryption within all of those platforms.

If we are successful in that process and there is no assurance we will be successful in that process, than it moves on to the second phase or third phase of it, which is how do actually then go replace all the devices that have storage? How do you replace the drives in those devices with ones that are capable of actually protecting the data? And so this comes from a long line of stories that have been told around various devices going back to the famous story about the predator, which had no encryption on the video feed. So everybody could just watch the video feed from a laptop with a radio on the ground regardless of whether you were a good guy or a bad guy. And the reality is we need the commercial off-the-shelf protection capabilities that are there are inexpensive, very good quality, and accomplish the job, which is to protect the data more than what's currently there, which is not enough.

RONALD MEYER: Okay. One last thing. On the ATM, I see that we sold 1.1 million shares in February. Regarding our cash flow, do you anticipate to use the ATM again in the second quarter?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: So, we have no obligation to and I think this is a very important point. This is set up as an investment vehicle completely under the control of the Company. We can use it or not use it. I think the Company is making certain investments in the market, but we are not articulating at this point in time that we have any specific plans to raise additional capital.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Timothy Collins. Please go ahead.

TIMOTHY COLLINS, ANALYST, SECURITY RESEARCH ASSOCIATES: Hello, Steven and Gerry.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Hi there.

TIMOTHY COLLINS: So actually, my question is about the enterprise upgrade world. I guess the first part of it would be, have you seen any change in the marketplace? Obviously the army vehicles -- protecting vehicles is important, but have you seen any change in the marketplace for authentication, password management that lead you to a conclusion that you are going to see some kind of adoption rate, an easier adoption rate?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: I think two things are underway. One is a lot of the world's enterprises that invested in software based encryption are really not happy with it. And they're looking to switch into something else. Many of those deals were three or five year deals that are coming to their end of life, and a lot of the opportunities we have today are the replacement of existing software encryption schemes that the companies were very unhappy with. And so the ability to walk in and show just about immediate return on investment is very positive. And we have a good example of that, a large petroleum Company that bought our product came back to us and said that if they look at their total cost of acquisition of that product, our software licenses, servers, the whole nine yards, they actually figured out that they saved $1 million more than the total project cost in password resets for Microsoft Windows passwords. And so in reality, their deployment of data encryption with the Wave solution, because we replace the Windows authentication model with one that's integrated in the drive substantially changed their helpdesk cost to the point where the project was actually a revenue generator for the Company

TIMOTHY COLLINS: That's cool.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: And if you can repeat that exercise a few times, even better. And so for us, it's about how do we articulate and tell that story and show the return on it, and that's what helps customers make a decision to move. Having said that, it's still -- we sell every account. It is very seldom that we get a phone call out of the blue from somebody who says, hey, I heard about you, would like to buy your stuff. And it's getting better, actually, had one of those this morning where somebody called us up and said, hey, who do I talk to about buying your stuff? Which was great. An account we had not been talking to before, and we actually see that happening these days as opposed to in the past it was 100%. If you'd never talked to us, there was no probability you are calling us out of the blue.

TIMOTHY COLLINS: That's great. I guess I have a follow on question on SafeEnd. I guess you have -- SafeEnd is -- you've been together for six months approximately. So you have been integrating SafeEnd into the Company and cross-selling. So what are some of your impressions? I've always had a high opinion of Israeli's ability to sell internationally and not withstanding to develop technology to be sold internationally. So is this turning out to be as good an acquisition as I kind of thought it would be when you first announced the details?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: I think all the indications are the answer to that is yes. Having said that, I think that it's probably one more quarter before I can really prove it on the ground. So, we really spent right after the acquisition training the sales and marketing teams. So let's just say for the sake of argument, they really hit the ground running January 1st. And so having a couple of months to develop new accounts, call people up, tell them this is a new capability, get around to getting a meeting, showing it to them, et cetera. I think we'll really see the sales growth progress in Q2 out of SafeEnd. And we certainly have had perfectly fine sales of it in Q1, but I don't think we have really seen the kind of strength and growth that is really possible. And so I am very intrigued to see how the Q2 numbers come in. Because their list of accounts and pipeline accounts is much stronger in Q2. And asking people who have just been trained what their plan was for Q1 was while a useful exercise, they really didn't have enough data to answer the question. And so my guess is I still have one more quarter to really answer that definitively and put some numbers on the table. But overall, it's been very positive.

The customer base is very interested in the product. We have been able to cross-sell into older accounts. There is a strong interest in having the capability there. I also think there are some pieces that need to get added that will drive the functionality and capability over time. I think that the whole endpoint protection model is missing a mental image of supporting content in the Cloud as well. And I think that we're doing a good job of integrating that, and you'll see some products in those lines in the summer timeframe. We demonstrated some of those capabilities already and it's really about not only do I protect content that's on a USB stick, but how do I protect content that I put up into my I-drive or drop-box or whatever. And I think that becomes very important as well.

TIMOTHY COLLINS: Okay, good. I've had a lot of calls about at-the-market selling, and I just kind of wanted to comment that I feel that it's a really efficient technique for raising money without really disturbing the market. And there is something to be said for marketing, for raising money when you have had a series of contracts and the Company has a lot of momentum. But in the kind of choppy markets we have been going through over the past years, and with the irregular large sales that -- large transactions that Wave has had, I think this is a pretty efficient way for you to just kind of supply a little additional capital. So I've told everybody that they shouldn't be so alarmed about it, and that it's just a question of -- I mean, you and Gerry have your hand on the throttle, and so it's just how much do you want to push the throttle down. So I just kind of wanted to say that just to alleviate some of the concerns that I have had.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Sure, thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Donald Lee. Please go ahead.

RONALD MEYER: Hello?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Hello?

RONALD MEYER: Yes, hello? Hello?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Yes, I'm here.

RONALD MEYER: Yes I have a couple questions. One of my first question is regarding the Dell relationship. Since Dell has put all voice products out on their website, what kind of relationship does Wave still have with Dell at this point?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: We have a very strong relationship with Dell. There was a rebranding exercise within Dell around the embedded TPM technologies and the software that goes with it. We are now underneath a brand called DDPA or Data Protection -- Dell Data Protection Suite. And the product is broadly marketed across Dell platforms, it's just not under the Wave brand. It is part of Dell's effort and you can see it across a very broad array of their product lines to supporting a Dell branded security solution into the marketplace. So we have a very strong relationship with Dell. We ship our product in 32 different languages, or 30 languages around the world, and we ship hundreds of products an hour.

RONALD MEYER: My second question is the Dell XPS 13 ultrabook is a blockbuster, and if you ordered a laptop today, you won't see it for two months -- the business one, the business laptop. Does Wave software ship with the XPS 13 business as well?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Yes it does. There is a TPM on that platform and the TPM is available with Wave software on the platform.

RONALD MEYER: Okay, one more question. I know you have a big pipeline, maybe a 48-inch pipeline, but we only see maybe one or -- if we're lucky, one trip per quarter. Do you expect we are going to see maybe two or three trips per quarter looking forward?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: We would certainly like to see that. I think one of the comments and I've made this before is that we have a number of large accounts. I will give you an example. We have a very large relationship with a bank, it's in the north of 50,000 feet range. They're not going to buy upfront. They are buying as they acquire the machines. And so the arrangement with them, they have already begun to buy drives. They have paid us for some customization of our software, and they will buy server seats as those serve seats flow into the market. And so there is no contract with them, they buy through their supply chain partner, in this case, they actually are a Dell customer. And so I don't have agreement that I can announce because there is no specific agreement. They could decide to change their mind tomorrow morning and never buy another product from Wave.

On the other hand, they have spent six to nine months making the decision, engineering it into their solution, deploying it in their infrastructure, and we will see the revenue that generates from that over the course of the next year or so as enterprise seats sales. And so we actually have quite a few accounts that we add on a quarterly basis that are the basis of the growth of the Company. But clearly, the larger accounts that order the product up front; and therefore, generate an announceable transaction for us have much greater impact on people's comfort level that, yes, we are continuing to grow. I think that is sort of the key point.

Even if we have -- if you look over the course of the last year and I think this will continue, even though you have quarters that are up and down and up and down, fundamentally compared to a year before, they are systematically moving up. And that is really the sign I look for is are -- our petroleum Company contract as an example. Everybody was all excited because they signed a contract in the last day of Q3. Yes, but we didn't actually ship the product because they had to finish a testing sequence until the middle of -- in the middle of the quarter. So signing a contract doesn't guarantee me an order. It's not until I actually deliver the product that I can actually bill the customer for it. And I am not going to announce it until I can actually accomplish the billings for it. Because I think that's what's important in the marketplace is to show you the real results that are on the ground that are provable, and if a customer has an opportunity to say, hey, we are going to order it but then something hiccups, I don't want to set your expectations that they're going to order it and then three weeks later have to say, Well, gee, they changed their mind. I would like to actually announce it when it's a real order. And I think that's served Wave well in the past. It will serve us well going forward, and it's very important that as we look at the revenue that is generated, it is generated off of a solid foundation of product that is delivered and billings that are in place and properly accounted for.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Ronald Meyer. Please go ahead.

RONALD MEYER: Hi Steven. Again, congrats on the Army contract.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Thank you.

RONALD MEYER: A few questions for you. In your recent presentations that you've made to investment type conferences, you've been clear that Wave strategy is to reinvest its increasing revenue back into R&D and product development and expanding the Company's market opportunities. And you stated that making a profit is not the highest priority for now, and I believe most shareholders support that strategy for now. But if shareholders can't focus on the Company making what I would call a near-term profit, it forces us to focus on the revenue growth rate of the Company to determine the progress that we're making.

So, I'd like to get a read on baseline revenue projection for 2012. And I'm not looking for what is possible if everything fell into perfect place, but I'm more interested in a reasonable expectation you have about what you know is coming this year; and on the last conference call, you felt $50 million or possibly north of that number was reasonable. Now it's five months later and based on the recent $11 million quarter, is it reasonable to expect that that number could be adjusted up to say, $60 million or north of that in revenue, which would be reasonable for 2012?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: I think it's a reasonable expectation. I think the challenge is very simple. And so I will play off of your number, $60 million would represent a perfectly nice growth for the Company over the course of the year. It also would represent that trusted computing hasn't fully engaged in the marketplace. That's the interesting trick of forecasting for the Company.

And so where we are right now, is we are at the front edge of a huge expansion in trusted computing with both the mobile and consumer markets. And there is no lack of clarity that that is underway. And what I don't believe we can do is afford to miss that train. So that's why we've made the investments that we have made, so that when I -- when the mobile industry is really starting to figure out what Trusted Platform Modules are, the only Company that you really need to call is Wave. And that we have the experts on the ground and we have implementations we can show, et cetera.

And so, what is been interesting has been building the forecasting model where if you do it from a top-down perspective, you can get to substantially higher numbers. When you do it from a bottoms-up perspective, in other words, you go ask all the sales guys what they think they can sell next year, it's more in the $60 million range. Because they can't yet see the effect of an external force changing their position. So they can only look and say, look, it was this hard for me to sell something for the last year. It's better today. But I can't afford to predict the incremental step change. And so again, I will use the same example I used before. The self-encrypting drive business still represents only a couple percent of new machines shipping with drives. And yet we are about to see pressure on the OEMs to standardize it in models because Microsoft is applying that pressure for an operating system that will ship some point in the future. General consensus is in the fall timeframe. If people were to adhere to that pressure, the drives are available. Does that mean that it goes from 2% to 3% or does it go from 2% to 30%? I don't know how to predict that. Now, at some point, I think we will be able to see indications of the supply chain, but it is just a level of intelligence that I'm not quite sure that we have today on the actual order flow that's going on in the rest of the world where I don't have my finger on that pulse in a manner that gives us really clear indications yet.

RONALD MEYER: Okay. But you said 36 to 60 is possibly reasonable, and I am comfortable with that for the moment.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: We see a very healthy growth year, and a very healthy growth year still represents an assumption that the trusted computing space as a whole doesn't really take off. That that is probably forming -- that realistically, we see that towards the end of this year and really manifesting itself in 2013. So, would we like it to be faster? Absolutely. Are we doing everything we can to cause that to happen? Absolutely. And trusted computing is clearly there. The problem with mobile space is we have to get it built into the devices and some of that is underway. We've made some announcements on that front. More of it has to be underway. The customer demand is starting to form around it. They are all just learning how to spell TPM in the mobile space.

I don't know, we've been around this for a really long time, all of us together; and this has not been anywhere close to as easy as anybody expected. And the idea that we have 500 million or 600 million devices out there that will facilitate the elimination of your password for logging on everyday, and we are having to beat people into turning it on, all you've got to do is ask the person sitting next to you, so, would you like your passwords to go away? The answer is, Oh my God, thank you, somebody is working on it. But, yes. We oscillate from mass enthusiasm to, Oh my God, I can't believe this is this hard on a regular basis.

RONALD MEYER: Right. Going back to the third quarter for moment. On that call I asked you to give shareholders an early indication of how Wave's launch of the endpoint monitor was being accepted by the industry. At even though at the time WEM was not commercially available, you said initially you were pleased at the reception WEM generated particularly in the Cloud computing and major boost for bios management areas. But you needed more deployment experience to really demonstrate the value of WEM to customers. And at that time, you'd already made one sale and you were as I recall, trying to close another; and by now, you must have started several other pilots.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: We have two active pilots underway, and I am busily touring as many people through those pilots. One of them is within the DOD space, and in many aspects I would like to see if I can avoid the duplication of that level of pilot. And instead use it as a reference so that those folks because they can have access to the data would take the next stage of expansion. And we are in the midst of that conversation.

I would say, overall Bios Integrity has been a very, very positive reception so far. And I would say the same thing that I say to all my customers in the space, it is time for the economy of Bios Integrity to start, which means people need to start writing some checks. Because right now I have a very nice pilot going underway, the momentum is underway, we're going to want to see some progress in Q2 or early Q3 timeframe to show that that really has significant volume customers executing and deploying before we can say the whole thing was really a success.

RONALD MEYER: Do you think there could be as many as 10 or more WEM sales during 2012?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Absolutely. Yes, you've got NIST standards, you've got OSD standards, you've got a market that is losing its everything, every single day, because there is no protection on their networks. And you are looking for a change in the market model, the fact that this is going to show up on all your mobile space as well. So it's -- it's really going to be about two things, building the distribution partnerships because we can't go deploy these things by ourselves to everybody. And so, showing some of the systems integrators coming on board, et cetera, I think is very important. It's going to be showing more of the networking players continuing to join the space. Obviously we have huge support from Juniper and have had for a long time. I think any indications with the major players in networking are joining a really clear indicator in the market. And then obviously actual endpoint customer sales.

RONALD MEYER: In regard to that recent Wave Samsung PR back in November, outlining our future business relationship with them, I would appreciate your comments and reaction to the kind of seemingly little attention it received by the investment community. And if you can, could you expand on the importance to Wave of the Samsung partnership? Do you think the future revenue contribution will bring us say in a few years have the potential to equal or even exceed that which Dell now contributes to Wave's revenue?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Oh, very much so. So based on the past experience, I think I'm going to give up telling anybody about anything we do in the mobile space because every time I put out something that does anything with mobile, it seems to have people go running for the shores. But I don't know. The reality at the end of the day is that mobile devices are playing a more and more important role in our lives, and actually I would say we are taking an enormous step backwards in security by using our mobile devices today. And we need mechanisms to help provide a greater level of security and protection. And trusted computing is clearly one of those core mechanisms within the mobile space. Having said that, there are a lot of proprietary solutions who have no interest in supporting a common industry-standard mechanism that competes with their proprietary solution. On the other hand, the folks who manage and build devices, the folks who are the ultimate end acquirers of a device are hugely interested in interoperability.

And this is where there is an intrinsic advantage, which is not at all understood by the market, which is the fact that I have 600 million PCs that are out there that have trusted platform modules in them that Wave software runs against today, the moment I extend that to an Android platform, which I demonstrated at RSA means that the same infrastructure I used to manage all the devices I already have, now just got extended to my mobile devices. So you could look at the leading players in mobile device management and go ask the question to any of them, so what is your plan to manage PCs? To which they will give you a big blank stare and tell you that PCs are going away. Well, contrary to popular opinion, PCs are not going away. And so there is a very interesting thing and it has been pervasive in the media over the last two years, which is when you talk about market share, everybody forgets to talk about PCs. And yet things with hinges and keyboards, actually have a pretty big share of the market and will continue. And so now you have Microsoft with a consistent strategy of the laptop, the desktop, the workstation, the tablet, the phone with a consistent level of security on all of those devices. All of them consistently running Windows Office on all of those devices. That's pretty cool.

And if I can extend that security model into Android and ultimately into other platforms, then the enterprise can afford to stand to have one infrastructure run all of their devices; and at the end of the day, what will be really important is when a device connects to a service, that we can determine it's an authorized device and what its capabilities are. So Bios Integrity and Health is also capable of reporting on the capabilities of the device. So for example, does this tablet have full disk encryption? Because I'm not going to let you download the medical records on a tablet that doesn't. And so we have a huge advantage in that space. But we are tying it to this thing that's been a big heavy lift and it's not going away. It's getting stronger every day. But it's been more complicated for people to deploy than let me go buy a little thing and plug it into my phone and ta-da, I've got an answer. But I do believe we are on the right track for the right solution, and there are a lot of really great people that are involved in this space and it's not just Wave. And I think it's that whole community that is driving this forward. We have a real opportunity to be at the forefront of it. We will show -- what we showed at RSA was integrity, validation of a phone doing authentication to a Cloud service in the same way we do Bios Integrity management on a PC.

RONALD MEYER: That leads me to my last question. Has the (inaudible) been successful in working with the OEMs to develop a process to turn on the legacy TPMs in the old machines so there's 500 million that don't have TPMs turned on? And can it be done without physically turning each one of them on? And how hard is it to activate and refresh the bios in each machine before the TPMs are activated? In other words, are those problems solved yet?

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Most of them have been solved for a while. The reality is that the earliest TPMs were shipped turned off for a variety of different reasons. Really, in the course of the last Windows 7 operating system, most of the TPMs are powered on but not enabled yet. Enabling can by done just purely through software. And as we move to Windows 8, it's fully automated, you just -- your bank account will reach down, if your TPMs turned off, it will help you turn it on. We do completely touchless TPM enablement today on dozens of systems. You get some older systems, three or four years old, a little more complicated. But it's not any more complicated than push F2, reboot your computer, click on this option, and reboot. Will it task your mother-in-law? Maybe. But the average general purpose computer user should be able to do it without any trouble if you have an instruction sheet. It's certainly no worse than setting up your HP printer drivers.

OPERATOR: And now I'd like to turn the conference over to Steven Sprague. Please go ahead.

STEVEN SPRAGUE: Thank you, everybody. Thank you for your time today. I know we took a fair amount of it. As usual, if anybody has any questions that didn't get answered, please feel free to reach out to me. I will do my best to respond. And I think we are very pleased with the progress, and we look forward to a strong 2012 and continuing to advance the Company forward. Thank you for your support, thank you for your interest, and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your participation, and ask that you please disconnect your lines.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
wavsys : Wave Systems Corp | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3442 : Environmental Control Systems | ielec : Electronics | iindele : Industrial Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gdef : Armed Forces | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcns : National Security | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120411e83s0050l
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Authentec Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
5,142 words
   PD
1 March 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to AuthenTec's fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 financial results conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. At the conclusion of today's call, instructions will be given for a question-and-answer session. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, March 1, 2012. I would now like to turn the call over to Brett Perry, with Shelton Group, investor relations agency of record for AuthenTec.

   TD
BRETT PERRY, DIRECTOR OF IR, SHELTON GROUP: Thank you everyone, for joining us today to discuss AuthenTec's fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 financial results. With me today on the call are Larry Ciaccia, AuthenTec's CEO, and Philip Calamia, CFO. As the operator mentioned, this call is being recorded, it is also being broadcast live over the Internet, and maybe accessed in the investor relations section of AuthenTec's website at investors.AuthenTec.com.

After the market closed today, AuthenTec issued a press release discussing its financial results for the fourth-quarter and year-ended December 30, 2011. By now, everyone should have access to the press release and financial tables. However, if you do not, they are available on the Company's website.

Please be advised that matters discussed in this teleconference contain forward-looking students regarding future results or events. We caution you that such statements are in fact, predictions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially. Additional risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements may be found in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Forward-looking statements are based on the Company's beliefs as of today, Thursday, March 1, 2012. AuthenTec undertakes no obligation or responsibility to publicly update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as is required by law, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. Additionally, in the Company's press release and during this teleconference, management will discuss certain measures and information in GAAP and non-GAAP terms. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in the financial tables following the text of today's press release.

I would now like to turn the call over to AuthenTec's CEO, Larry Ciaccia. Please go ahead, Larry.

LARRY CIACCIA, CEO, COO, PRESIDENT, AUTHENTEC INC: Thanks, Brett. Good afternoon everyone, and thank you for joining our call today. Phil and I will be reviewing our fourth-quarter results in detail, but before we do that, I would like to recap and highlight what was a very successful 2011 for AuthenTec. We ended the year at $69.8 million in revenue, up 56% year-on-year from the $44.7 million in 2010. We are profitable on a non-GAAP basis for the last two quarters of the year. Second-half 2010 to second-half 2011, we improved our non-GAAP operating income from a loss of $7.3 million to a profit of nearly $3.5 million, an improvement of over $10 million on an operating basis.

Full-year gross margin up nearly 500 basis points from prior year. Successfully completed a major integration of UPEK ahead of our cost synergy targets, completed two tuck in acquisitions to advance our strategic direction, had several major customer programs launch including the first android smartphone in the US with fingerprint sensor. HBO Go with our content protection services, multiple smartphones with our IPsec VPN clients, HP consumer notebooks with a version of our TrueSuite software called Simple Path, and also announced architectures with ecosystem partners around NFC-based mobile payments. All in all, a very good 2011.

With regards to our Q4 results, we had revenue of $18.8 million, at the midpoint of our guidance, down 2.7% sequentially and up 30% year-on-year. On a non-GAAP basis, our EPS was $0.04 share, ahead of our guidance of $0.01 to $0.02 per share. Our Smart Sensor revenue in the quarter was $10.4 million, down 13% sequentially, and up 5% year-on-year. This sequential decline was due to several factors, including softness in the PC market, and platform transitions in wireless. In our embedded security business, we had an outstanding Q4, with revenue of $8.4 million, a record quarter for this Business, up 15% sequentially, and 83% year-on-year.

This achievement was driven in part by ongoing growth in the two revenue categories that we view as key, license revenue from new design wins, and royalty revenue. A primary driver of the sequential growth was royalties associated with our hardware IP and DRM product lines. This Business, by its nature, is subject to variability quarter-by-quarter, and we have benefited from particularly-strong royalty revenues over the last several quarters.

We continue to focus on a solutions-based market approach leveraging our broad portfolio of mobile and network security products, in order to provide security to and from client devices in the cloud. During the quarter, we announced several new initiatives in customer programs in support of this. Our content protection and DRM solutions for server iOS and Android devices are experiencing solid revenue growth, and numerous customer programs have recently been launched. Three North American content providers launched new mobile services using our DRM solution.

We are now part of live content services in eight European countries, some of which are associated with very well-known network and content providers. And our second DRM customer in Asia, a large wireless carrier, launched a major mobile video service. As we have stated on previous calls, our standard business model in this area involves an up-front license fee and per-unit or download royalties, so we believe these launches will drive future revenue as adoption grows and customer downloads of the applications increase. Many of these customers are utilizing our downloadable DRM agent for content-viewing applications that can be found in the iTunes App Store and the Android Market.

We continue to expand our content protection solutions, and recently announced the first of our planned offerings around high-bandwidth digital content protection, or HDCP. This specification was developed Intel to protect digital entertainment content as it is sent from PCs, set-top boxes, tablets or mobile phones to displays like flat panels, TVs and projectors. Our solution includes a dedicated hardware engine that protects full HD content, and DRM agent software for mobile set tops and consumer electronics makers.

HDCP has broad industry support from content providers including Disney, Warner Brothers, and Sony Pictures. With regard to our IPsec VPN client for Android smartphones, our mobile VPN client is well-positioned to leverage the growing trend by IT managers to extend security policies for laptops to new mobile devices including smart phones and tablets. I have previously mentioned design wins with Motorola, LG and NEC. Our mobile VPN client continues to gain traction and we shipped out more than 4 million smartphones during the fourth quarter.

In our sensor offerings for smartphones, we have begun volume shipments of our AES850, for Fujitsu's first Android smartphone, the REGZA T-01D. Our 850 provides security that locks and unlocks the phone, enhances the speed and security of NFC mobile payments. The phone also incorporates our DataDefender app, allowing users to secure access to their favorite android applications with one swipe of a finger.

This is significant, as it is the first consumer Android smartphone to take advantage of our portfolio of mobile applications that combine security with convenience, and expand sensor functionality. We're very excited about the launch of this phone, as we believe it represents the expansion of fingerprint-enabled NFC smartphones in Japan, and will help drive growth in that region this year.

We continue to focus on establishing fingerprint sensors as foundational security for NFC transactions. To that end, we demonstrated ACARSE a secure SIM-based solution for NFC mobile payments with Oberthur, another leader in the field of secure technologies and authentication. The fingerprint NFC demonstration combined Oberthur's NFC FlyBuy and SIM-flex with our sensor to enable single-swipe biometrically-secured NFC payments.

Oberthur and AuthenTec worked with INSIDE Secure, a leading provider of NFC technology, to implement control of NFC functions using the fingerprint FlyBuy solution. This represents an extension of our previously-announced SD and MicroSD-based NFC architectures with NXP chipsets, as we continue to aggressively partner with leaders in the ecosystem.

At Mobile World Congress this week, we demonstrated our extensive offering around mobile security, including our new VPN client 2.0, which launches in VPN via fingerprint authentication, a fingerprint-enabled soft card launch application for NFC, DRM content protection, new HDCP solution, and new sensors for smartphones and tablets. During the show, Fujitsu displayed a new quad-core Android phone that integrates our 850 sensor and NFC mobile wallet application, with plans to offer it in Japan and Europe.

We also introduced our new Secure Device Architecture, or SDA at the show to address the growing needs of our customers around security and encryption. Our new SDA includes a new data-at-rest solution, and new SafeZone middleware that meets FIPS 140 security requirements. This architecture is our latest offering to enhance mobile security, as we continue to innovate around this important strategic direction for our Company.

Now, to touch on a few other areas of the Business. During CES earlier this year, we announced our fingerprint solutions are being used in multiple new Lenovo ThinkPads. Lenovo has been using our unique offering to enable power-on authentication, where a simple swipe powers up the laptop, providing a very secure, yet easy-to-use environment. Working together with Lenovo, we have extended this feature to reduce the time to boot up, or the time needed to come out of standby. We believe this will be an important differentiating feature as the trend to reduce PC response time continues.

We also announced a new solution for Apple iOS 10 line of Snow Leopard based Macs. We have updated our Mac software suite to leverage many of the features our Windows-based TrueSuite offering, and combine it with our Eikon USB Fingerprint Reader. This is the first of several initiatives to enable the growing number of Apple platforms with our fingerprint-based offerings, as well as make them available through multiple channels, including our web store and Apple.com.

In our government and access control touch sensor business, we have secured design wins in China that we expect to drive revenue growth. China has been a key focus area for this Business, and we believe we will significantly grow our share in the banking and government sectors. Also during the fourth quarter, we completed two small acquisitions will extend our solutions offerings in multiple areas of our Business.

We acquired Seattle-based PeerSec Networks to extend our secure communications offering around mobile network security. We offer products around many of the industry standard communication protocols like IPsec and MACsec. Now with the addition of PeerSec, we add SSL, secure socket layer, and TLS, transport layer security to our offering.

We now offer a proven software solution that uses a very small footprint, and is optimized for embedding in a broad array of IP-connected devices that communicate with each other and to the cloud. The PeerSec integration is essentially done, we've begun full integration on our product roadmaps, secured our first design win, and launched our first new product as part of the secure device architecture.

We also acquired Southern California-based Proxure during the quarter, adding cloud-based and online backup and syncing services between PC and mobile devices. This is a B2C as well as a B2B business and is very synergistic with our existing product plans. Proxure's KeepVault service has been offered on our web store, and enables fingerprint-enabled cloud-based backup and restore. We have planned to offer syncing of fingerprint-enabled identity management functions like password replacement and quick launch across tablets, smartphones and PCs, and through this deal, will now be able to accelerate those efforts.

We announced this morning a deal with Western Digital, that bundles our KeepVault backup service with their DX4000 family of Sentinel storage service for business. Our KeepVault provides an integrated cloud-based backup service option for this new server offering from Western Digital. Although both of these acquisitions were small compared to some of our prior deals, we're very excited about their role in advancing our strategic initiatives. I will now turn it over to Phil for the detailed financials.

PHILIP CALAMIA, CFO, PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER, AUTHENTEC INC: Thanks, Larry and good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $18.8 million. The $18.8 million was comprised of approximately $10.4 million of revenue from Smart Sensor solutions, and $8.4 million from Embedded Security solutions. The Smart Sensor revenue decreased from the $12 million recorded in the third quarter of 2011, and increased from $9.9 million recorded in the prior-year quarter.

The sequential decrease of $1.6 million or 13% was attributable to lower sales in each of the Smart Sensor product lines, which as Larry mentioned, was impacted by softness in the PC market and various customer platforms being completed in the prior quarter. The increase of $500,000 from the prior-year period was primarily due to an increase in our government access control product line, offset by lower sales in our PC and wireless product lines.

The Embedded Security revenue of $8.4 million, again represented a record quarter and a 15% sequential increase, and a $3.7 million or an 81% increase over the fourth quarter of 2010. Both the sequential and the year-over-year increases were driven primarily by increased license and royalty fees associated with our hardware IP and content protection products.

On a GAAP basis, consolidated net loss for the fourth quarter was $600,000 or $0.01 per share. This compares to GAAP net income of $201,000 or breakeven per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2011, and the loss of $17.7 million or $0.48 per share in the prior-year quarter. Looking now at our results on a non-GAAP basis, non-GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter was 63.7%, compared to 57.9% in the third quarter of 2011, and 51.4% in the fourth quarter of 2010.

The 580 basis point sequential improvement in gross margin was due primarily to a higher mix of embedded security solutions revenue during the quarter. Total operating expenses on a non-GAAP basis were up $10 million, or $400,000, or 4% higher than the third-quarter of 2011, primarily due to higher R&D spending. Fourth-quarter non-GAAP operating expenses were $1.4 million, or 12% lower than the prior-year quarter primarily due to synergies realized as part of the acquisition integration activities we undertook.

On a non-GAAP basis, consolidated net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $1.8 million or $0.04 per diluted share. This compares to non-GAAP income of $1.7 million or $0.04 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011, and a non-GAAP net loss of $3.8 million or $0.10 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010. Non-GAAP results exclude certain legal and other one-time costs, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and severance. Non-GAAP EPS for the fourth quarter was calculated using a weighted average of 45.7 million shares.

Turning now to the balance sheet, we ended the fourth quarter of 2011 with $20.4 million in cash and investments. This compares to $20.6 million in cash and investments at the end of the third quarter of 2011. As of December 30, 2011, accounts receivable were $9.4 million, as compared to the $11.3 million at the end of the third quarter of 2011.

Days sales outstanding for the fourth quarter were 46, as compared to 53 reported at the end of the third quarter of 2011. At the end of the fourth quarter, inventory was $8.1 million, which represents 99 days on hand. This reflects an increase as compared to the $7.7 million or 80 days on hand at the end of the third quarter of 2011.

Capital expenditures for the fourth quarter were $401,000, depreciation was $489,000, and amortization was $1.3 million. Looking ahead to the first quarter of 2012, we expect revenue to be within a range of $16.5 million and $17.7 million, comprised of a modest overall increase in our Smart Sensor segment, offset by a decrease in our Embedded Security Solutions segment, from lower royalties as compared to the fourth quarter.

We expect our non-GAAP blended gross margins to be approximately 56% in the first quarter. Regarding non-GAAP operating expenses, we expect our first-quarter expenses to range between approximately $9.6 million, and $10.2 million. Lastly, our current estimate of non-GAAP results for the first quarter is a range of approximately a net loss of $0.01 to net income of $0.01 based on 46 million shares outstanding. Larry, back to you.

LARRY CIACCIA: Thanks, Phil. As a recap, I am pleased with the significant achievements that we made as a Company in 2011, and believe that the fundamentals are in place to drive growth in 2012. We have expanded design win opportunities with new and existing customers in PC and mobile, and expect continued traction across our VPN, DRM and secured network solutions. We also believe there's additional opportunity to capitalize on the India and China ID programs, and our government business throughout 2012. I look forward to sharing our continued progress with you on next quarter's conference call. That concludes my prepared remarks, and operator, we can begin the Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from Steve Smigie with Raymond James. Please proceed.

STEVEN SMIGIE, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: I was hoping you could comment, in terms of the outlook for your embedded business, obviously it is slipping back down because you had such a big quarter in Q4 with special circumstances there. Will that continue to trend down into June as well? I was just sort of curious about how that pattern is going to look for the coming year really?

LARRY CIACCIA: Yes, I don't think I really want to guide for out through June. You know, one of the things we mentioned in the prepared remarks, just the nature of that business, there is variability quarter by quarter, and where a lot of that is just and the fact that we did a lot of license deals as a lot of different types of applications, both hardware and software, across a lot of different markets, there is typically lags when that equipment goes to market, and then there's varying degrees of success our customers have in the end markets.

So, we have a pretty robust pipeline of potential royalty revenue. Timing and where that's going to come in is really hard to say, with a lot of visibility. I will say though, the underlying business around our focus areas of VPN and DRM and hardware licensing, we do expect that business to grow in 2012.

STEVEN SMIGIE: Okay, great. And then just hoping you could give an update on the fingerprint sensor business in regard to handsets. I know in the past you've said it is more a 2012 and 2013 story, but just is there any thoughts on your activity relative to the OEM there? And tied to that, obviously there was the news about Google's PIN being hacked on mobile wallet. Has there been any positive OEM reaction as a result of that saying we've got to stick fingerprint sensors on there?

LARRY CIACCIA: Right. If you put the Japan business aside for a minute and actually, we're quite excited about what's happening with our customer in Japan and actually, the impact that may have outside of Japan. But, if you put that aside for a minute, there are programs were engaged on now that could come to market in the second half of 2012.

Certainly by next call, we'll have the right level of confidence that those are indeed moving to the manufacturing and production stage. It's a real program with our customer, but hasn't been committed to volume production yet, which is not atypical of what we see around handset programs. So we have a lot of engagements that don't see the light of day independent of fingerprint, I think we talked about that on prior calls.

With regards to the Google hack of the PIN, what I've said on several of the prior calls, we believe fundamentally long-term to secure mobile wallet transactions, a PIN is inadequate, and that fingerprint really is the optimal intersection of convenience with security, so I think it reinforces the message that we've been espousing to our customers for quite some time. To answer your question, did it stimulate any accelerated reaction since that happened, I don't know if I would go that far, but I think it gave some credibility and validity to our value proposition.

STEVEN SMIGIE: Okay. Just a housekeeping question, within the sensor business this quarter, how much was PC versus handset versus government access?

PHILIP CALAMIA: So, Steve, it's Phil. PC was roughly $4 million in the quarter.

STEVEN SMIGIE: Okay.

PHILIP CALAMIA: And then, wireless was right around $2.5 million.

STEVEN SMIGIE: Okay. And the balance is obviously in government access? Okay.

PHILIP CALAMIA: And software.

STEVEN SMIGIE: Okay. I think that's it, and I appreciate that. And good luck.

OPERATOR: Or next question comes from Hamed Khorsand with BWS Financial.

HAMED KHORSAND, ANALYST, BWS FINANCIAL: Hi, guys just a follow-up on the earlier questions asked here. It sounded like you guys are surprised with the royalties you guys recognized in Q4. So why is it difficult to really know why royalties in Q1 will be down, and what would need to happen that royalties bump up? Is there a specific event?

LARRY CIACCIA: Maybe I will expand on my comments. We get royalty reports from customers that are obligated to give it to us, a certain period of time after the prior quarter ends. In some cases, we have reasonably good forecasts and cooperation from customers, and they have reasonable visibility into their end business shipments, and we have that modeled into what we're guiding to.

But occasionally, a product ships far in excess of maybe even what the customer thought, and certainly in excess of what they forecast to us. And in that case, we get what you could call positive variability. We saw a little of that in Q3 around DRM content protection services for a customer that had a huge number of downloads through iTunes and Android Marketplace.

So, we have a base level modeled in, but there's just variability around that where we don't always have good visibility. I would like to believe that with the portfolio of design-ins we have and our license agreements around that, that somewhere out in 2012, there is a positive royalty surprise coming again, but that is not something I certainly would commit to or plan to. So we have our business modeled, and our OpEx modeled around a baseline.

HAMED KHORSAND: Okay, is there anything in the pipeline as far as more networks joining on the DRM download?

LARRY CIACCIA: Absolutely. We continue to see a lot of progress there worldwide. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, now we have three service providers in North America, eight European countries launched live mobile video services that utilize our content protection, and we added a second large carrier in Japan.

And we have talked about it for a few calls, this idea of moving mobile content to securely to devices is growing, and our new product offering around HDCP is really an extension of that, because now they want to protect what you do with that as you display it on a flat-panel or TV at home off your mobile device.

HAMED KHORSAND: So, can you expect an announcement in Q1 of more customers?

LARRY CIACCIA: I would say in the future, we would hope to be able to announce new design wins. And the thing is, in some cases, I think you know this, depending on the customer, they have a sensitivity around going public and when we speak in generalities like we had to do in the script this time, it's just because the customer doesn't want to go public.

And a lot of them are very sensitive around what they are doing around content protection and security-related aspects of that. So I think we'll be able to speak to wins we've had, and try to be as specific as we are allowed to be.

HAMED KHORSAND: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). The next question comes from Susan Bower, with Noble Financial Group. Please proceed.

SUSAN BOWER, ANALYST, NOBLE FINANCIAL: So, it looks like that your operating margins were up pretty well this quarter and you said that was due to the strength in the ESS division. When you look at the two divisions separately, how do your margins break out? Roughly what are they for each of the two segments?

PHILIP CALAMIA: Susan, hey, it's Phil. So for embedded, the gross margins on that business are mid-90s. And, as you cycle through the directly attributable costs and allocations for G&A, you get into the low 30s in terms of operating income. And then on the sensor side, those blended margins are a little closer to 50%, and this is all on a non-GAAP basis. And they are still reflecting an investment in that side of the business.

SUSAN BOWER: Okay. And, so you talked about having some increased R&D expenses this quarter. How long are you expecting to continue that? Do you expect it to go into the March quarter? Is this something you see continuing in the near future?

PHILIP CALAMIA: For 2012, we're basically planning our R&D to be flat to slightly up. We're going to be taking out some new versions of some of our products, the sensor-based products, and that's driving some of that incremental increase, but I think overall, that will be flat to down as a percent of revenue, but incrementally up on absolute basis.

SUSAN BOWER: Okay. And, let me see. You talked about a couple of design wins in China, and then some potential on the banking and government sector. Was that with the UID programs or what division was that?

PHILIP CALAMIA: That wasn't related to the India UID program or even the national government ID program. Within the banking industry in China, for many transactions they actually require a fingerprint authentication, and so they will use our touch sensor in a type of reader or some type of mobile terminal, and we had a design win around an opportunity with a large bank in China. And hopefully, we will be able to say more specifics on that moving forward.

SUSAN BOWER: Okay. Let's see, did you mention cash flow from operations? I don't know if I missed that or not?

PHILIP CALAMIA: No, we didn't. As you can tell by the top line, we're about flat on cash, quarter-over-quarter. We actually generated free cash flow, positive free cash flow as you cycle through everything. We had a little bit of cash that we put to work for those small investments, so cash would've been slightly up on a free cash flow basis.

SUSAN BOWER: Okay. And geographically, I know you don't usually give specifics on the call but was there any geographical segment that really stuck out to you?

PHILIP CALAMIA: It's changed a little bit since last year, and ultimately you will see the disclosure in our 10-K. But it's been, historically we've been heavily weighted in Asia-Pacific, but given where some of the business had morphed in 2011 it's leaning a little more towards US-based clients.

SUSAN BOWER: Okay. All right. Thanks so much, guys. Good job.

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to hand it back to Mr. Larry Ciaccia for closing remarks.

LARRY CIACCIA: Then if there is no more questions that concludes our call, and thank you again everyone for joining us today.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation, you may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120315e831009c5
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 STEC, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,309 words
   PD
28 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the STEC, fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 earnings call. At this time all participants are in a listen only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mitch Gellman, Vice President of Investor Relations.

MITCH GELLMAN, VP, IR, STEC INC.: Thank you. Welcome everyone and thanks for joining us today for today's earnings conference call. We hope that you had the opportunity to read this afternoon's earnings release containing our results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2011.

I would also like to update you on our participation at three recently held investor conferences as well as one that we are presenting at this week. During February, STEC management presented at the Stifel Nicolaus Technology and Telecom Conference, Goldman Sachs Technology and Internet Conference, and the Credit Suisse SSD conference. On March 1, STEC management will present at the Morgan Stanley Technology Media and Telecom Conference that is going to be held in San Francisco.

Joining me for today's discussion of our results, business outlook and Q&A session are Manouch Moshayedi, our Chairman and CEO; and Raymond Cook, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that our prepared remarks and answers to questions will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based on management's current expectations. These forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements concerning growing acceptance, adoption and qualification of SSDs within the enterprise storage and server markets; anticipated increased activity from STEC's customers; the qualification of STEC's products and solutions into emerging OEM customers; STEC's key product line initiatives and development; the transition from one product generation to the next; the capabilities, performance, benefits and cost savings of STEC's products and solutions; the benefits from CellCare and other developing technologies; STEC's abilities to innovate to meet its customers' needs; the rapidly evolving storage markets; and expected first-quarter 2012 revenue and earnings per share entail very significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements.

These risks and uncertainties are detailed in periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Special attention is directed to the portions of those documents entitled, Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Listeners are cautioned not to place undue relations reliance on these forward-looking statements which represent our views only as of today. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if the estimates change. And therefore, you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to today.

Additionally, as we discuss our financial performance, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please see the reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP measures included in today's earnings release.

Thanks again for joining us today, and now I would like to turn the call over to our CEO Manouch Moshayedi.

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI, CHAIRMAN & CEO, STEC INC.: Thank you, Mitch and good afternoon. I would like to begin today's call with a commentary on the state of our business. Raymond Cook will then provide a discussion of our operating results.

Despite an increasingly competitive environment last year, we were able to grow our business by 10%, with our revenue topping $308 million for the year, and we managed to keep our margins up. We have also taken great strides to prepare ourselves to address the opportunities that lie ahead.

While the markets that we serve represent a fraction of the overall enterprise IT spending, solid-state storage technology is gaining ground and represents a key growth driver for the industry, particularly as SSDs have become strategically important to the design of new storage architectures. This gives us a very positive long-term outlook for the enterprise SSD market.

Recent industry announcements are further signs that this market is growing. For example, the introduction of all-Flash systems by major OEMs is a clear sign of where this business is headed. Clearly, the end customers are seeing the results of adopting SSDs in their environments and are demanding these high-performance solutions.

At the same time, the market has seen the emergence of dozens of specialized all-Flash array vendors who are also driving the momentum and with whom we have great relationships as well.

With both the leading and emerging OEMs in this space, we have positioned our solution to serve as the essential building blocks in the next generation of storage solutions. And we expect to qualify into several new platforms that will be introduced in coming quarters.

Similar to when STEC first ushered Flash into enterprise through numerous OEM qualifications several years ago, these latest announcements signal a major adoption point for the industry, and that once again STEC is going to be a key enabler.

You may have also seen many acquisitions announcements in the Flash space over the past year. In terms of SSD controller technology players in the market acquired companies such as Anobit, Indilinx , Pliant and SandForce. These events strengthen the value of our proprietary controller technology, which we have developed in-house over many years.

Apple's acquisition of Anobit for its Flash endurance IP was particularly noteworthy to us, given the size of the investment made into this type of technology, which is similar to our CellCare technology.

As the industry incorporates smaller NAND geometries, current eMLC solutions become unable to address the critical enterprise requirements off the drive and more complex work needs to be done at the Flash layer.

Several years ago we saw the need to improve Flash endurance, and assembled a team to develop techniques to solve this impending issue. CellCare provides a real and differentiated solution to the challenge of enhancing the endurance and reliability of standard MLC components.

We incorporate CellCare into most of our current and future products. And as evidenced by our OEM qualifications, we are the trusted leader in managing and optimizing MLC Flash for use in enterprise SSDs.

Recently there have also been plenty of announcements by SSD vendors surrounding the acquisitions of caching software companies. We saw the need for caching software ahead of the market and began developing it in-house. Last year we acquired a R&D team in India to accelerate this objective and introduced an early version of our caching software, EnhanceIO, which is currently being tested by numerous customers.

Many players in our space followed suit by acquiring companies such as IO Turbine, Virtensys, SANRAD, and FlashSoft. These announcements prove we are making the right moves at the right time, long before anyone else thinks of what is required.

A key question to address is why our recent results have not reflected the current momentum in the market. The short answer is that we are still in a period of transition. Our newest innovations of products are in different stages of qualification with our OEM customers. The environments that we service demand the highest performance reliability and endurance, and that is the standard to which we design and build our products.

We develop proprietary hardware and firmware technology purpose built for top-tier enterprise customers, and with that comes a very long design and qualification process. I would like to dig deeper and provide more color on where we stand with our products.

If you consider the markets in three separate segments -- the SATA-based server markets, the PCIe-based segment, and Fibre Channel and SAS markets, there are different dynamics at play.

First, we are relatively new to the server market with a viable SATA-based product line. We introduced our MACH16 products to capture more of this market and we are making some headway. We believe that the approach of designing a solution based on a high-performance product and adjusting it to conform to a very price sensitive market will win out over competitors who try to service this market with consumer grade products.

In the end, we know quality is still important to enterprise customers. Thus far several OEMs have qualified our drives and we have many opportunities in play.

Second, we're in qualification stages with customers for our PCIe card. Although competitors have created buzz recently, the market is wide open and there are tremendous growth opportunities. During the design process of our PCIe card, we collaborated with our major customers to hone in on the desired form, function and characteristics of this product.

The overwhelming response from OEMs was that they wanted a card that did not tax the host system in terms of memory or security sources. And we have been able to deliver what they requested and more. While our card is still being qualified at customers the feedback is extremely positive.

The Fibre Channel and SAS segments have been our core focus since 2007. A few competitors have been able to qualify products at our customers over the past several quarters, but we believe that our fourth generation of our flagship ZeusIOPS SSDs set the new bar for performance in this category. While the price reductions afforded by our new ASIC controller and CellCare technology we should be able to retain a significant share of this market.

The key advantage for us is that we have developed our own ASIC, which is common in our SSDs, and gives us a much faster throughput and more reliable solution and a cost advantage over competitors who either use FPGAs or multiple controllers on these boards.

Designing our own controllers for these markets from the bottom up is not an easy undertaking, but it gives us control and ownership over the critical IP of our products and allows us to optimize performance through our own firmware and software.

In the short term these efforts have increased our research and development costs and time-to-market. However, we believe our proprietary controller design will help us create a more uniform set of products that leverage the countless engineering years of development and effort and process refinement for the long-term benefit of the Company.

With all three of these products families undergoing major transitions at the same time, we will be in a good position to capitalize on our R&D investments. Customers have come to rely on STEC as a complete SSD storage solution provider, and many have been eagerly awaiting our next line of products. And since our product portfolio spans the interfaces that are major in this market, this makes our total addressable market quite large.

In order to capture our share of this TAM, all of our latest product iterations have been designed with unique differentiations that set us apart from the competition. We are not simply introducing a me-too product that are pieced together technologies developed by others.

During the transitional phase we have not stopped investing in the Company's future. We have expanded our development and sales and marketing efforts, which we see as fundamental to maintaining our value-added position in the industry and creating additional opportunities to grow our business.

Looking ahead, as we work through our qualifications that are underway at customers, we are mindful of our growth, which has always been to be well-positioned in these enterprise storage markets for the long term.

That ends my prepared comments, and I will now turn the call over to Raymond who will provide more detail on our financial results.

RAYMOND COOK, CFO, STEC INC.: Thank you, Manouch, and welcome everyone. Our net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $58.1 million, which surpassed our guidance of $55 million to $57 million for the quarter. The net revenue by major product categories was as follows. Our Flash-related products accounted for $54.8 million or approximately 94% of total revenue. Our DRAM-related products accounted for $1.6 million or 3% of revenue. And our service revenue was $1.8 million or 3% of total revenue.

The Flash-related revenue was comprised of ZeusIOPS of $45.9 million; MACH products of $4.9 million; and embedded SSDs and other Flash products of $4 million.

The net revenue for our full year 2011 was $308.1 million as compared to $280.1 million for our full year 2010. International sales comprised 70% of our total revenues in the fourth quarter of 2011.

For the fourth quarter of 2011 our GAAP gross profit margin was 41.1% as compared to 45.8% in the third quarter of 2011. Our non-GAAP gross profit margin was 41.5% as compared to 46.0% in the third quarter of 2011. The decline in gross profit margin was attributable to our fixed production labor and overhead costs being spread over a smaller revenue base, low-margin raw material inventory sales, and lower ASPs on our end-of-life Gen 3 Zeus SSDs.

Our GAAP gross profit margin for the full year 2011 was 43.6% as compared to 43.4% for 2010. Our non-GAAP gross profit margin was 43.8% as compared to 43.6% for 2010. Our Q4 2011 GAAP sales and marketing expense was $6.2 million. The GAAP G&A spending was $7.9 million, and our GAAP research and development spending was $15.1 million. Total GAAP operating expense for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $29.3 million and non-GAAP operating expense was $25.4 million.

Our non-GAAP results for the fourth quarter of 2011 excluded stock option compensation expense of $3.8 million, securities and derivatives action litigation cost of $191,000, and IP litigation costs of $132,000 net of tax impact of $1.4 million. The non-GAAP adjustments are detailed in our fourth-quarter of 2011 earnings release that was issued earlier today.

Our provision for income taxes was booked at an effective tax rate of approximately 0.8% for the year ended December 31, 2011. The decrease in our GAAP effective tax rate to 0.8% for the 12 months ending December 31, 2011, from 6.5% for the nine months ending September 30, 2011, is attributed primarily to income tax benefits related to the conclusion of tax audits in the fourth quarter.

Our GAAP diluted loss per share was $0.08 for the fourth quarter of 2011. Our non-GAAP diluted loss per share was $0.02 for the fourth quarter of 2011, which was within our non-GAAP earnings per share guidance of breakeven to a loss per share of $0.02.

Turning to full year 2011, our GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.50 as compared to $0.56 for 2010. Our full-year non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.70 as compared to $0.69 for 2010.

From a balance sheet perspective, the following are select accounts of interest for the fourth quarter of 2011. Cash and cash equivalents increased $19.7 million from Q3 2011 to $180.9 million. This includes $11.4 million used during the quarter to repurchase 1.145 million common shares of STEC stock.

Accounts Receivable decreased $17.1 million from Q3 2011 to $30.5 million. Net inventory decreased $23.8 million from Q3 2011 to $58.6 million. Capital expenditures were $1.8 million for the quarter, offset by $3.5 million of depreciation and amortization.

Current liabilities decreased $8.2 million for the quarter to $21.1 million due primarily to the timing of accounts payable payments to suppliers. And the Company had no long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011.

Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended December 31, 2011 was $31.8 million.

Turning now to our guidance for the first quarter of 2012. We expect our revenues to be in the range of $49 million to $51 million, with non-GAAP diluted loss per share to range from $0.14 to $0.16.

This loss is driven by fixed production, labor and overhead costs being spread over a smaller revenue base, our current product transition which will impact margins on our end-of-life SSDs, and the continued investment in our R&D infrastructure.

I would like to thank you for joining us today. This concludes our prepared remarks. I will now open up the call to your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Edward Parker, Lazard Capital Markets.

EDWARD PARKER, ANALYST, LAZARD CAPITAL MARKETS: Regarding the qualification timing, it sounded like things are more or less on track. You mentioned that you are hopeful by the end of the second quarter that you will see qualification, but should we expect June to be down sequentially from a revenue basis or do you think we will see growth by then?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: We are still not sure about the June quarter, so we will announce that when we are ready to announce the second quarter of the year. But the qualifications are basically in-line with what we had predicted and we think that they will be done by the end of second quarter.

EDWARD PARKER: And then on the EPS guidance, clearly it suggests a pretty big increase in operating losses, as you articulated. Do we expect that gross margins could be in the 30s, or do you think that is mostly going to be an increase in the R&D OpEx?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: As of production costs most of it stays fixed, based on depreciation and equipment and everything else that we've got. That is spread over a smaller amount of revenue, so as a result that decreases our total gross profit margin. So we're not sure exactly what the impact is going to be yet in the further quarters, but the margins are obviously a little lower in the first quarter this year. That is why we are showing that loss.

EDWARD PARKER: Thanks. Good luck, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Shebly Seyrafi, FBN Securities.

SHEBLY SEYRAFI, ANALYST, FBN SECURITIES: Can you talk about the expected gross margin recovery in the back half of 2012 as the new products ramp?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Obviously, the amount of revenue that we generate would have a lot to do with the gross profit margin, but Gen 4 has a higher profit margin associated with it than the current products that we are selling, which is the end-of-life of Gen 3. So we expect our gross profit margins jump up once we get into qualified Gen 4 products.

SHEBLY SEYRAFI: But is your goal, for example -- realistic goal to get back to revenue levels and gross margin levels that were in existence in the first half of 2011, specifically around $80 million to $90 million per quarter, about 43%, 45% of gross margins, that kind of thing?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: That is definitely what we are working towards. I think our margins will get back up there once our revenue gets up there.

SHEBLY SEYRAFI: And the last one for me. Among all the four products Gen 4, MACH16, Kronos, and EnhanceIO, which of those do you think will be finished in qualifications first?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: So both in the MACH16 and Gen 4 are in qualifications with customers and have been qualified at multiple customers already, and are shipping production in multiple customers. However, they are not completely qualified yet at our major larger customers.

On the PCIe card, it has already been into product (unintelligible) -- into qualification at customers, and we expect that qualification to be done by the end of Q2 as well. That is being qualified across major OEM customers in addition to larger data centers.

Then EnhanceIO is being also looked at by all the OEM customers that we deal with for the server business. And I think that will be released at a production type of a thing somewhere around middle of Q2.

SHEBLY SEYRAFI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Sherri Scribner, Deutsche Bank.

KEVIN LABUZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: This is actually Kevin LaBuz on behalf of Sherri. I was just hoping to drill down a little bit on the PCIe opportunity. What are you expecting there, and really what differentiates your products versus some of your competitors, such as a Fusion or an OCZ?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: A couple of things. We have ASIC on our PCIe board versus others who have got FPGAs, or they might have a third-party controller or multiple third-party controllers on their board. Number one.

Number two, our PCIe card does not demand any of the resources from the host. So it doesn't latch onto the host and take DRAM and CPU resources away. So it is a very scalable type of design.

So I can understand if you're putting one single card in there and maybe even up to two single cards into your server, you might not see the difference because the CPUs are very powerful. However, when you want to put six PCIe cards in there or four PCIe cards in there you will definitely notice the change in the speed of the system if they are running a major operation.

So that is one of the big differentiators between our PCIe cards and everybody else's. Where we have all of the CPU power, all of the memory power, on the PCIe card versus demanding it from the host. That has been something that we discussed now over the past three, four years when we were trying to put the design together of the PCIe card with our OEM customers. And they all demanded that this PCIe card be a stand-alone card by itself, not needing any resources from anywhere else. And that is what we have designed.

The other benefit that we bring into the market that others don't have is our CellCare technology. With PCIe cards and applications where they are needing caching -- they are needing to go into caching type of applications, these are going to be written to many, many times on a daily basis. And those sort of circumstances in order to get MLC workable in those sort of situations you need a technology like CellCare.

And we are the only one -- the only company that has that, because there was another company, Anobit, that Apple bought -- so they were used to licensing the technology to others. At this point now Apple has bought them, so that licensing is no longer available to anyone else. So we remain the only one with a CellCare type of technology which makes MLC much more reliable and the endurance of MLC high enough for applications in enterprise.

I don't know if you have noticed or not, but about two months ago or so we announced a product with MLC that can withstand 27 full writes a day for five years. That is bigger than all SLC drives that are there today. So we have already achieved milestones with our CellCare that even regular SLC chips can't get to.

So those are the major differentiators of our SSDs as a whole and in particular the PCIe card.

KEVIN LABUZ: Thank you very much. And just as a follow-up, last quarter you mentioned that you are qualifying some of your products with new storage companies. In this quarter you talked a little bit about some all-Flash storage arrays. Just can you provide an update on when you think you will start turning those qualifications into sales?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Those qualifications are already in small sales. So it all depends on when those smaller companies get to market at a larger scale. Right now most of the companies that we are talking about are in the $50 million a year type of run rates in terms of their total sales. So as a result a fraction of that is only our SSDs are going to their systems. Once they get up into multiple hundreds of million dollars then we are going to have noticeable obviously income from those types of markets as well. So most of those companies at this point they had been qualified already and we are doing production sales to most of those guys.

KEVIN LABUZ: I know you can't provide names, but can you just give a ballpark number of the numbers of companies are working with?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: I think in terms of the smaller, newer companies that are coming into the market there is, I think, 10 or 12 of them.

KEVIN LABUZ: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Gary Mobley, Benchmark.

GARY MOBLEY, ANALYST, BENCHMARK: I guess, looking at your largest customer -- what was historically your largest customer, at one point you're doing around $65 million a quarter back in the latter part of 2009. Are we to assume you have no sales to this customer during the first quarter?

And as a follow-on to the prior question about gross margin, for that product sold to that customer, it is called Gen 3, I think you were yielding close to 50% gross margins for that product. Can you generate that level of gross margin for the Gen 4 product?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: So I don't want to talk about customer specific, but there are no -- none of our OEM customers that we used to sell to that we don't sell to today, or during Q1, or we don't expect them -- don't expect anyone to go down to zero even during Q2 or further two quarters. We have very strong relationships with all of our customers, and our goal is to maintain those strong relationships.

In terms of gross profit margin, when we sell the product we try to make that 45 plus margin. But it comes down to the total revenue that we generate during the quarter. And if that revenue is below -- roughly about $65 million then we are in a situation where our overhead for production are a significant portion of our sales, therefore they start impacting our gross profit margins.

So that is basically the rule of thumb in terms of gross profit margin. But all in all every generation that we design and we get into we are targeting those products' gross profit margins in that ballpark that we have always been able to achieve.

GARY MOBLEY: I just have one follow-up question. For your ZeusIOPS MLC products are you still fairly well-insulated from competition for those particular products with the customers that you have traditionally sold them to?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: You can never be insulated from anything, but we feel pretty comfortable that our ZeusIOPS, especially Gen 4, it has the best performance of all SSDs out there. And it has -- because it has been designed with our ASIC, which is much lower priced than anybody else is paying for either third-party controllers or FPGAs. And also it is designed with our CellCare, where we can capitalize on lower-priced MLCs. I think it make us extremely competitive in all of our markets that we have been into. And I would say that all of our customers that we have been dealing with now over past five, six years, they are pretty excited to see the Gen 4 qualify on those systems.

GARY MOBLEY: Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: James Schneider, Goldman Sachs.

MARK DELANEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: This is Mark Delaney calling for Jim Schneider. Thanks very much for taking the question. I was hoping first you could talk a little bit more about the competitive environment in the storage SSD market. I remember a couple of quarters ago you had talked about some share pressure, in particular in areas where customers were still using SLC-based drives.

I was wondering if you had any update both in terms of whether or not you are seeing increased pressure on the MLC-based market, and then also what your expectations are once you get to Gen 4 for your ability to maybe regain some of that share that had previously been lost?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Right, so first of all, I think some of those customers that used just consumer type of drives in their systems maybe they're looking at that sort of decision as not being the best decision possible when they look at the reliability of the systems when they're using those types of SSDs.

Number two, I think on the MLC side, we have been able to talk to all of our customers and make them realize that just buying other people's story that simply eMLC that will work for them on the long term that might not be the best way to go, and that might not be to their best advantage. Because when you put the math together in front of all of these customers, with simple eMLC, you see that pretty soon within a couple of years these drives that are supposedly warranted for five years and 10 writes per day, after a couple of years they start falling apart.

So we have been able to, I think, come to the customers and make them realize that if a competitor comes in there and offers a eMLC solution without a CellCare type of a technology then they should really look at those sort of -- those of technologies and question those more deeply than just whether or not the warranty will be for five years.

So I think with Gen 4 with our ASICs and with our MLC we have a winning formula that we would be able to gain back some of the market share that over the past year and a half we have been losing.

MARK DELANEY: That is helpful, thank you. As a follow-up, I was hoping you could help us understand a little bit more about the evaluation work you do on your own company. You had mentioned about all the M&A that has been going on at some of your competitors, and then also have been buying back their stock in the market. So I was wondering if you could help us understand, when you guys do that type of evaluation work what are the factors that are most important to you and maybe any specifics that you can give?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Over the past 20 some years, and especially over the past 17, 18 years that we have been in the SSD market, we have amassed a huge amount of IP. And as you can see, we are the only company out there that doesn't use anybody else's technology, doesn't piece together anybody else's technology. We see the markets before anybody else sees them.

Our CellCare technology alone, which was ahead of what Anobit was offering is extremely valuable, and by itself -- just by the purchase of Anobit we see that is probably more valuable than the whole company at its current valuation today.

Then you look at our PCIe designs that we have got that we have been spending a couple of years on and trying to design the best PCIe card that the market demands. That has a different valuation. We see companies that have got that one single product being valued at much higher level than STEC is.

We also -- our controller, you know, building ASIC is not a simple thing. It is an extremely tough thing. It takes a lot of engineering effort and a lot of cash to build an ASIC, and being able to build the ASIC for -- as a controller on our SATA drives, on our SAS drives, for our PCIe, all of these. And we saw another company, SandForce, sell for a pretty high price just for its controller technology.

So when you look at all of these technologies that are being sold off and being valued by others out there, and you put together what we have here, I think the market is just completely discounting the amount of technology that we have got. And, obviously, we're being punished a little bit by the fact that we're an older company and not one of the new full of buzz companies that are out there.

MARK DELANEY: That is helpful. Then just last one. After you get through the second quarter, and hopefully you get these -- the qualifications of new products behind, and maybe some of the R&D expenses is fully in the model, do you actually think your OpEx could go down in the back half of the year or should it at least stabilize?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: I think OpEx will stabilize. But we are very quick at our feet in terms of trying to control OpEx. So if the numbers stay similar to what they are, obviously, we are going to have to control OpEx, and do something about it. If the numbers keep growing, we are going to have to keep growing our different channels and R&D and other engineering projects that we have got and everything else. So it all depends on how the quarters go and how the future looks.

MARK DELANEY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Richard Shannon, Craig-Hallum.

RICHARD SHANNON, ANALYST, CRAIG-HALLUM: A couple of questions for me. Manouch, you responded to an earlier question about your software data management mentioning that once you put more than a couple of cards in the server that hurts performance. I am kind of curious if you have spec'd out what the TAM looks like for situations with the number of cards, I think you said four and above versus what that TAM looks like for customers who are only going to use one or maybe two per server?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: So I didn't say four and above, I just said if you put four in you can definitely see the difference. But once you start putting one and two and when you put it in front of yourself you see that it is taking a lot of memory and CPU power away from the system.

I don't have the TAM exactly where the markets are in terms of when they are going to put more than let's say a couple of cards onboard their systems. But anecdotal evidence is that a lot of people are going to the PCIe -- to go to a PCIe solution. And a lot of new applications and systems are coming up that are just mainly PCIe on board, and not too many are SSDs.

So with those type of applications, all the new applications, I think our design is perfectly suited.

RICHARD SHANNON: And specifically, I will just inquire about some of these larger scale Web properties. What kind of architectures are they typically looking at, a smaller number or a larger number of cards per server?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Right now we're looking at one to two per server.

RICHARD SHANNON: Do you expect that to change anything? And if what do you expect to be the driver for any changes like that?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: You have to think this whole thing -- the whole SSD market, including what we started in 2007, it is all pretty brand-new to all of the system manufacturers, and they don't react that fast. Even though we have seen many new designs and new architectures being announced out there, by the time those systems come to the market and really gain any sort of a traction will be a couple of years.

So we still have to wait and see what happens two or three years down the road in terms of adoption of SSD as a whole.

If you look at the total SSD market in the enterprise, you add all of the players together, you still end up to be 1.5 billion or less per year worth of SSD if you add all of them. That is a small, small quantity compared to the total spend on Flash, on DRAM, on all the systems, on hard drives and all those. Things have to change a little bit and things are changing.

We are seeing a lot of momentum on SSD side, on PCIe side. And we see big OEMs start announcing new system architectures that leverage more and more SSDs.

So it is early days right now. People are still trying to stick a SSD into their system or stick a PCIe into their system just to do a better job than what they're doing with hard drives. But going forward, we are seeing a much bigger momentum in terms of number of SSDs and number of PCIe cards they are placing in all of these systems.

RICHARD SHANNON: I appreciate that perspective, Manouch, thanks. My next question quickly on pricing, price per gig specifically. As you look both at your server and array side businesses, where do you -- do you have any sort of general roadmap or what your customers are asking for in terms of particular price points, ending this year and going into 2013, any thoughts you can share with us?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Price points in general are in the $3 range per gigabyte for MLC-based SSDs. And I am just not talking about low type of capacity drives, but let's say middle capacity drives. And then the other type of applications, which -- that use much higher capacity drives for more of a read intensive applications that could be in the $2 range.

RICHARD SHANNON: Okay, perfect. And, Manouch, one last follow-up from one of the earlier questions as well. You mentioned you're talking to some of your customers about the potential issues that could arise by using lower-quality drives with eMLC or whatever.

How successful are those conversations you're having convincing them not to use those and to focus more on a higher-quality, higher-performance, better endurance solution like what you have?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: That is a very tough conversation, because it is very, very difficult to prove to customers that these drives fail after a couple of years. If you think about let's say a 400 gigabyte drive, and the speed to which you can write into these drives. If you want to exhaust even the 30,000 write cycles that today's eMLC offers, even at full speed writes into that drive you're going to take a year, year and a half to fully exhaust that drive, and no one is going through that sort of a practice in order to prove the drives fail.

So most of the competitors who come to the market they offer the five years, they offer that 10 times per day type of writes. And they just say, I will give you the warranty on it. And they bet on the fact that the customer might not use full 10 writes per day, and if they do, it is going to take them a couple of years to exhaust that drive. And then two, three years down the road, they will come back and just return that drive and replace it.

So that's what most of the competition is betting on. And most of the customers not really being flash architects, they just go with the promise of the warranty and they don't question it further.

We have devised different type of tests and systems to be able to write to the drives a lot more during a shorter period of time. But even when you format the drive to a lot smaller amount and do the test, it still takes 6 to 8 weeks for a test even a very small drive.

So these are tough tests and tough conversations to be had. And customers have to become more wary of what is happening in the market, what is going on with Flash before they decide to go forward with one of these promises that 10 writes per day with eMLC is going to be coming through.

RICHARD SHANNON: Thanks, Manouch, I appreciate the thoughts.

OPERATOR: Aaron Rakers, Jr., Stifel.

AARON RAKERS, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: First, Manouch, you referenced gross margin back to a normalized level on the basis of $65 million in revenue. Should we also consider that to be your breakeven number as far as revenue is concerned or how are you thinking about breakeven a return to profitability as far as a revenue stream?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: I think $65 million is a fairly good ball park when we get to be profitable again.

AARON RAKERS: Fair enough. Then as I remember back when you guys first started to get ZeusIOPS qualified, one of the things that we saw happen was after the qualification some of the OEMs would burn through the inventory that they had consumed for qualifications.

As we look to some of these new products, be it ZeusIOPS Gen 4 or the PCIe offering, should we consider that in our model assumptions that after you get these qualifications there is going to be some inventory that has to be burnt through before we get to normalized production volume levels?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Yes, that is still true. However, the impact is much smaller than it was before, because when you look at what we did before there was like let's say 3,000 drives that were shipped out as samples to customers. And the total demand from the customer was 3,000 drives a quarter. Today that demand has gone up in tens of thousands of drives per quarter. And the amount of qualification units are still the same 2,000 to 3,000 units. So even though it does have the impact and they still do the same practice, the impact of it is much smaller.

AARON RAKERS: Then two other questions. It looks like given the disclosures that you guys have provided, EMC revenue went from about $23 million down to $8 million. I want to be clear in understanding this is that, first of all is my math right given what you guys have provided?

And, secondly, you are not assuming that EMC is a zero going forward. And is that predicated on them getting qualified on the Gen 4 product, and that ramping more into the second quarter, or for that matter the third quarter of the year? How do I think about the EMC trajectory of business as far as that is concerned?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Right. So I said before, I am not going to talk about the specific customers, but every one of our OEM customers that we have had a long-term relationship with over the past four or five years is looking at our Gen 4, qualifying our Gen 4, and we expect revenues from those customers, all of them.

AARON RAKERS: And then final question for me would be -- Manouch, you give a very valiant valid argument for the valuations that is being paid on some of these takeouts and where you guys are valued. Can you remind us again where you stand on share repurchase activity, given the balance sheet that you have. I think you have bought -- you purchased 1 million or a little bit more than 1 million shares this last quarter. What keeps you less active on that front given the conversations that you guys made around some of the valuations that are out there?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Actually, we just completed a buyback of $55 million of our shares a couple months ago. So we haven't stopped buying. We had a 55 -- first we had, I think, a $10 million -- a $15 million tranche off a buyback which we completed. Then we added a $55 million tranche, and we completed that.

RAYMOND COOK: So we had a $15 million tranche and then we had a $40 million tranche.

AARON RAKERS: And that is completed now?

RAYMOND COOK: We bought back 5.61 million shares during Q3 and Q4. So those two plans that we had in place have been completed.

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: So we have gone from almost 52 million shares down to 46 million shares.

RAYMOND COOK: That is correct.

AARON RAKERS: So just so I am clear, there is no new allocation in place today?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Right now, no.

AARON RAKERS: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nehal Chokshi, Technology Insights.

NEHAL CHOKSHI, ANALYST, TECHNOLOGY INSIGHTS: You guys are still expecting to gate the availability of Gen 4 volume shipments until all major OEMs have qualified the Gen 4 controller design, or are you willing to ship in volume if a few have qualified within the second quarter?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: So anyone who has qualified Gen 4 is going to get shipments of Gen 4, so we're not stopping shipments to them. But the bigger customers are going to still take until the end of Q2.

NEHAL CHOKSHI: Also, it seems like you have a bit more of uncertainty over what your market share will be with the Gen 4 than with prior generations, especially in the storage SSD space. Can you discuss what is driving that uncertainty despite what are advantages that you have discussed with the CellCare technology and that you own your own ASIC design?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: The reason for it is that there are multiple vendors out there who are competing with us, and a lot of the OEM customers that we currently have are looking at second source.

We used to be 100% market share of the whole SSD market for the enterprise. Obviously, since then we have seen many, many competitors come into the market. And our OEM customers are also looking at multiple vendors for every single slot that they have got. Nobody wants to tie themselves into a single source.

NEHAL CHOKSHI: Understood. And do you expect to be largely second sourced or third sourced or first sourced?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: I don't really understand your question -- first source, second source. I think when it comes to what we have available for our OEM customers, technology that we offer them, we're never categorized as a second source or a third source. It is just we are their source. And if they -- if we can't ship to them they use their second source or they might allocate a share to us and a share to a second source.

NEHAL CHOKSHI: Then can you talk about the controller roadmap? I think at your Analyst Day you talked about, I guess, what maybe we should be calling a Gen 4.5 on the 2X nanometer. Can you talk about when you expect to start to sample those chips to OEMs?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: Actually, the controller that we currently have on Gen 4, including CellCare, it takes -- it goes from 32 nanometer to 24 nanometer to 2X nanometer. So there is no new controller that is coming out. It is just predicated on our shipment of qual units to different customers who demand a 2X nanometer part.

NEHAL CHOKSHI: Right, so what is the timetable that your customers are laying out for demanding such a 2X nanometer part?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: In Q2, Q3 of this year.

NEHAL CHOKSHI: Very good, thank you.

OPERATOR: Rich Kugele, Needham.

RICH KUGELE, ANALYST, NEEDHAM: Just a couple of quick questions. First, Manouch, because you have been dealing with these OEMs in many cases for so many years, when you do get qualified with the next generation would they be announceable events or will we have to wait until the next conference call to hear if you have secured design wins?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: I think it will be self descriptive if we actually -- our revenues go up, you know that we have gotten qualified with everybody. I don't know yet if we will be announcing these things, because there are so many new competitors in the market, so many new vendors in the market, I would question whether or not the OEMs would want to do many, many announcements that they qualified with this guy and with that guy.

So I think announcing individual OEM wins is no longer -- some of them do. We just announced Fujitsu about a month and a half ago. But I don't know what is going to happen when we get full qualification done at the other OEMs.

RICH KUGELE: And then just to revisit the whole margin discussion again, if we go out to the end of the year all the wins have been basically assigned, if the competitive environment is such that you have to lower price, because you don't have -- all the products are already out -- and are you willing to break the 40/20 benchmark if necessary to participate in the markets you need to, or would you just shrink the Company to maintain that type of the market -- margin (multiple speakers)?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: (multiple speakers) our customers are asking for those types of pricing. I can understand some of the players in the SSD market who mainly sell into the consumer markets, are able to do, or are willing to do 20% margin or 18% margins in those markets, and that is what is demanded of the consumer type of products.

In our type of products I think our customers are not demanding those sort of margins that you are mentioning right now. And I feel pretty comfortable that with all of our products that we are announcing, especially the fact that we have got CellCare and ASIC, when you compare our cost to others, you see that we are able to make 40% margin plus when others might have to sell in the 20% margin of late. (inaudible) ASICs or they use eMLC or even SLC.

RICH KUGELE: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Alex Kurtz, Sterne Agee.

AMELIA HARRIS, ANALYST, STERNE AGEE: This is Amelia in for Alex today. Just a housekeeping question. Can you give us the non-GAAP adjustments per line item?

RAYMOND COOK: The non-GAAP adjustments are broken out within our earnings announcement that we have. We don't break those out by line item.

AMELIA HARRIS: Then moving on, how do you plan to build out an enterprise sales team to sell your PCIe products versus your traditional OEM sales force?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: So we have already announced actually a few people that we have added over the past month, month and a half. And we are building them -- I think we have got today about 10 or 12 people in that area. And we're going after data centers and Web 2.0 companies and enterprise companies and all types of different companies that use larger scale of servers. It is a one step at a time type of a deal.

AMELIA HARRIS: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Graham Tanaka, Tanaka Capital.

GRAHAM TANAKA, ANALYST, TANAKA CAPITAL: I am just wondering, the inventory, how would you characterize the inventory situation of products that are going to be replaced and the new products coming in? How much have you built in new products to deliver upon order and who do you think is in the field in your shop of existing products?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: So the existing products that we have been selling in Gen 3 and anything else below that, those products, the inventory is going down very fast. We have generated more cash out of the inventory, and our inventory is just going down every quarter.

On the new products, when we talk about the 3X nanometer and 2X nanometers, since those products are not being EOL'd anytime soon, there is no need for us to amass a huge amount of inventory in-house. So we can order those more based on our quarterly forecasts rather than having to buy huge quantities of those products for the next 18 months.

So I don't foresee for now, at least, our inventory of 3X and 2X nanometer to go the same way as we did with 51 nanometer and then 4X nanometer.

GRAHAM TANAKA: What is your lead time on ordering? Say, you were able to have a series of orders for one of the new products for immediate delivery, what is the time lag?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: We usually keep about I would say 8 to 10 weeks of inventory, maybe longer. And then if we see any new orders coming in by the time we place the orders we get our parts within 8 to 12 weeks.

GRAHAM TANAKA: What is the production operating rate? I assume it is a very small fraction of what your full capacity would be, so what is the operating rate now, and how fast can you scale?

MANOUCH MOSHAYEDI: We can scale very fast. And I'm not sure exactly of the operating today -- I don't know exactly what the percentage of our total usage it is, but it is a very small fraction of the total amount available for us.

GRAHAM TANAKA: Thank you. Good luck.

OPERATOR: At this time I would like to turn it over to our speakers for any closing remarks.

MITCH GELLMAN: Everyone, thanks very much for joining us today. Again, we have another conference coming up next week. If you plan to attend these or have any further questions, please give us a call here at the Company direct to me, and we will get your questions answered. Thanks again for joining us and for your interest in what we have going on technology-wise. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes the program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
smptch : STEC, Inc. | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302019 : Computer Storage Devices | icomp : Computing | icper : Computer Peripherals | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120314e82s0005l
  


 HD
 Q2  2012 Intuit Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,289 words
   PD
21 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good afternoon. My name is Sahid, and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Intuit's second-quarter fiscal 2012 conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer period. (Operator Instructions). With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Matt Rhodes, Intuit's Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rhodes, you may begin.

   TD
MATT RHODES, DIRECTOR IR, INTUIT INC.: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Intuit's second-quarter 2012 conference call. I'm here with Brad Smith, our President and CEO; Neil Williams, our CFO; and Scott Cook, our Founder.

Before we start, I'd like to remind everyone that our remarks will include forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors that could cause Intuit's results to differ materially from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued earlier this afternoon, our Form 10-K for fiscal 2011, and our other SEC filings. All of those documents are available on the Investor Relations page of Intuit's website at Intuit.com. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

Some of the numbers in this report are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We reconciled the comparable GAAP and non-GAAP numbers in today's press release. Unless otherwise noted, all growth rates refer to the current period versus the comparable prior-year period. A copy of our prepared remarks and supplemental financial information will be available on our website after this call ends.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Brad Smith.

BRAD SMITH, PRESIDENT, CEO, INTUIT INC.: Thanks, Matt. Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining us. We had a strong second quarter and we continued to build momentum for the great start to the year. For the first time ever, we generated revenue of more than $1 billion in our fiscal second quarter. We grew revenue double-digits, driven by our core businesses, and we grew our operating income and earnings per share faster than revenue, which is consistent with our operating principles. We remain confident in this growth trajectory as we continue to benefit from the long-term shift to Connected Services.

Each year at this time we recognize that you are increasingly focused on tax, and so are we. It's still early in the season, but I'm pleased with how the business is performing so far. There's still a lot of game left to play, and as usual, we've got some moving parts that are reflected in our results.

Our team continues the relentless focus to deliver great products that delight TurboTax customers. Their efforts are validated by the market's reaction to this year's TurboTax product lineup, which includes PC Magazine once again naming TurboTax its editors choice.

This year, SnapTax mobile app is earning five out of five stars in the Apple App Store, and TurboTax for the iPad is currently ranking as the highest grossing iPad app. In addition, our new free tax advice offering is generating positive customer feedback and it is helping TurboTax customers gain confidence that their taxes are done right and that they are getting the biggest refund that they are entitled to receive.

Stepping back to look at the yearly tax season results, we believe the total tax returns e-filed year-to-date are up slightly versus this time last year, but they are down compared to tax year 2009. This means the trend that we've seen for the past few years is continuing. Consumers are simply waiting until later in the season to file their taxes.

With that said, third-party data and TurboTax unit data through February 18 that we shared today give us confidence that the software category is growing and that we are performing well. This is consistent with our plans for the season, and as a result, we are reiterating our full-year guidance for consumer tax revenue growth of 10% to 13%.

Now while tax is top of mind, let's not lose sight of the performance in our other core businesses. Our Small Business Group continues to execute well. Small Business revenue grew 9% in the quarter, and is up 11% for the first half of fiscal 2012. We are on track to achieve our Small Business revenue guidance of 10% to 12% for the full year.

Fueling our growth in Small Business is the continued shift to Connected Services. Examples in the second quarter include QuickBooks Online subscribers growing 35% year-over-year, Online Payroll subscribers growing 22%, and Payment customers growing 11%, driven by the growth in our mobile payments offering, GoPayment.

The secular shift to digital solutions is good news for customer acquisition overall. More than 50% of the customers using the Intuit Online Payroll offering are new to Intuit. And for QuickBooks Online and GoPayment more than 70% of the customers are new to the franchise.

The digital shift also continues to enrich our mix, as Connected Services generate recurring revenue stream and favorable lifetime value economics for Intuit. For example, QuickBooks Online has a lifetime value that is 20% higher than QuickBooks Desktop.

And better yet, the shift to online is accelerating across the entire Company, with Connected Services representing 60% of total revenue in the first six months of this fiscal year, up from 54% in the first half of last year. That shows up in the financial results that we are announcing today, and it demonstrates that our strategy is working.

Just as a reminder, our three-point growth strategy remains unchanged. The first, drive growth in our core businesses, which benefit from high share, low penetration, and superior net promoter scores relative to competitive alternatives.

Second, to build adjacent businesses and enter into new geographies, which we expect to add 1 to 2 points of growth over the next several years. And third, to accelerate our Company's transition to Connected Services, which now represent 62% of total annual revenue, with over 35 million customers using our hosted offerings.

I'm pleased with the results this quarter, but there's a lot of ground yet to cover in the remainder of the year. And with that, I'll turn it over to Neil to discuss the financial details.

NEIL WILLIAMS, CFO, INTUIT INC.: Thank you, Brad. Let's start with total Company performance for the second quarter of fiscal year 2012. Our financial results were revenue of $1.02 billion, up 16%; non-GAAP operating income of $249 million, up 52%; and GAAP operating income of $192 million, up 73%; non-GAAP net income of $0.51 per share, up 59%; and GAAP net income of $0.39 per share, up 70%. We are certainly very pleased with our overall performance in the second quarter.

Turning to our Business segment highlights, total Small Business Group revenue grew 9% for the quarter. Within Small Business, Financial Management Solutions revenue grew 6%, which compares to growth of 21% in last year's second quarter. As a reminder, last year we benefited from a price increase for QuickBooks Pro and accelerating growth in QuickBooks Online and Enterprise Solutions.

Online and Enterprise Solutions customers continue to drive an improve revenue mix. The revenue for those two offerings combined is up 31% year year-to-date.

Employee Management Solutions revenue grew 9% for the quarter driven by online growth, improved direct deposit attach and mix. Online Payroll subscribers grew 22%. Payment Solutions revenue grew 17% in the second quarter. Revenue growth was fairly balanced between total Payments volume growth, which was up 10%, and adjustments in rates and fees. The total number of merchants grew by 11%.

Our Consumer Tax revenue totaled $295 million in the second quarter, up 44% versus the second quarter of fiscal 2011. As you will recall, the IRS was unable to accept certain returns until mid-February last year, which contributed to a year-over-year decline in Consumer Tax revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2011.

The Accounting Professional segment revenue grew by 8% in the second quarter. Our renewal rates remain strong, and we are confident in our full-year guidance for this segment.

As Brad mentioned, we are off to a strong start, and we are on track for the full tax season. As we do each year, we will release additional tax unit updates in mid-March and late April.

The Financial Services segment also executed well in the second quarter, growing revenue 9%. Internet banking end users grew by 3%, and Bill Pay end users grew by 9%. Our growth in this business is driven by ongoing adoption of our online and mobile banking capabilities, with mobile users nearly tripling over the last year to 1.6 million.

Revenue in our Other Businesses segment declined 5% in the second quarter. The decrease is primarily the result of a decline in Quicken revenue. Our global business grew 8%, and Intuit Health grew 33% off a small base.

Shifting to the balance sheet, the sound financial principles that support our strategy and objectives have not changed. Over the long term, we expect double-digit organic revenue growth, and we expect to grow revenue faster than expenses. We seek to deploy the cash we generate to the highest yield opportunities, and we target risk-adjusted returns of greater than 15%.

Beyond internal growth investments and acquisitions, we consistently return cash to our shareholders. On January 18, we paid a cash dividend to shareholders, and our Board approved a $0.15 per share cash dividend for our fiscal third quarter. In the second quarter we repurchased $331 million worth of our shares, leaving a little over $2 billion remaining on our current authorization.

Finally, turning to our guidance, we are reiterating our fiscal 2012 guidance for revenue and raising operating income and EPS guidance. We expect revenue of $4.185 billion to $4.285 billion for growth of 9% to 11%; non-GAAP operating income of $1.405 billion to $1.43 billion for growth of 12% to 14%; GAAP operating income of $1.19 billion to $1.215 billion for growth of 18% to 21%; non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.90 to $2.97, growth of 16% to 18%; and GAAP diluted EPS of $2.43 to $2.50, growth of 22% to 25%.

For the third quarter of fiscal 2012 we expect revenue of $1.95 billion to $1.99 billion; non-GAAP operating income of $1.14 billion to $1.17 billion; GAAP operating income $1.095 billion to $1.125 billion; non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.47 to $2.51; and GAAP diluted EPS of $2.36 to $2.40.

We are also reiterating EPS guidance ranges for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, which included non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.06 to $0.08 and a GAAP basic and diluted loss per share of $0.02 to $0.04.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Brad.

BRAD SMITH: Thanks, Neil. Each quarter, we share with you the long-term trends that are driving Intuit's growth, and for good reason. These trends demonstrate the durability of our strategy and our favorable position in a fast growing market shifting to digital solutions.

Our strategy to grow our categories and increase our share endures. Our core businesses are healthy with expanding customer bases and improving revenue per customer. As I think longer term, our opportunity to grow customers and revenue by converting nonconsumption has never been stronger, as customers continue to adopt digital solutions and mobile devices.

Even in tough economic times, consumers and small businesses are demanding digital solutions to help them save time and money, and Intuit will continue to deliver on our mission to improve our customers' financial lives through easy-to-use, innovative products that are accessible anywhere, anytime, and on any device.

And to deliver on that mission, we recognize that it all begins with having talented and engaged employees. On that note, I am proud to share that Intuit ranked number 19 on Fortune's top 100 best places to work in the United States, our highest ranking ever. I want to thank our employees for making a difference in our customer's lives and for making Intuit a very special place to work.

And with that, let's open it up to you for your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Nice quarter. Brad, I guess the same question as we asked last time at the same time of the year. The underpinning behind your Consumer Tax assumptions vis-a-vis the breakdown between category gain, share gain versus revenue per return gain.

I guess one broader philosophical question for Neil, the (inaudible) longer term had been the margin leverage from the move to SaaS. And I'm wondering if you could just give us a snapshot of how it exactly played out in the quarter?

I noticed that you talked about potentially tougher comparisons on the QuickBooks side from relative to a year back, but I'm curious how the move online is causing upward pressure to margins. Thank you very much.

BRAD SMITH: Let me take the first one, and Neil can handle that second one, as you directed the questions to each of us. The first on tax -- the key drivers remain the same. The first is how many people will file returns with the IRS. We still anticipate that number will be close to 1%, although to be frank with you, the IRS isn't publishing a lot of data this year, so we are operating on our own assumptions.

The second is to continue to grow the digital tax category. If you look at what has happened historically, it has grown twice as fast as tax stores and other alternatives. Our internal data suggests that we are continuing to do well in growing the category.

The third is to continue to expand our share. And we like our game plan right now. There's still a lot of season left to play, but we are laser focused on competing aggressively to take share.

And the last is revenue per return, which we get through mix and attach, and so far we like the early results we are seeing in there as well. So understanding that the season is playing now out a little differently and there's not a lot of transparency in terms of the data coming from the IRS just given some of the systems things they've been converting to, we are operating on the same assumptions, and so far this season is playing out exactly the way we had hoped. And we know there is still a lot of game left to play, and we're focused on bringing it in to a good close.

So that's how it's playing out in tax. Let me hand it over to Neil to talk about the second piece.

NEIL WILLIAMS: Sure, Brad. What we basically have seen through the first six months of the year is that we've been even more effective with how we've handled some of our marketing and some of our management expenses. So we have opportunities both in terms of marketing and in terms of employee costs, the effectiveness and efficiency of those. We have built some things, some assumptions, into our plan for the first half of the year. And we were able to achieve revenue growth that we reported today without spending as much as we'd planned. So we are passing some of that through to the revised guidance to the back half of the year.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Brad, just on Small Business, can you just give us a sense of -- it seemed like this bundled sale is really working well, and how you're seeing the cross influence of some of these other categories.

And if you could also talk about Payments. That business continues to grow very well. What's the next leg of growth there from your perspective?

BRAD SMITH: We are very happy with what we are seeing right now in Small Business. Just to give you some context, if you go back three years ago, we used to get 40% of our new customers outside of QuickBooks Desktop. We're now getting 70% of new customers beyond QuickBooks Desktop. So as we shift to more Connected Services and mobile apps, it's helping us get new customers into the franchise. And it's easier for us to identify additional problems that we can introduce them to a product through a simple link, and so that drives cross-sell and upsell and attach.

That's why we're getting strong revenue per customer. And the lifetime value economics as we shift away from desktop to online are 20% higher. So right now we like what we are seeing. Payments is benefiting from that as well.

Probably the single biggest driver in Payments right now, in addition to doing a good job of attaching it to QuickBooks and QuickBooks Online, is the introduction of GoPayment. And as we talked about a few minutes ago, 70% of those customers coming in on GoPayment are new to the Intuit franchise, and that's really what's helping accelerate the growth rate in our Payments business.

The next phase for us is to continue to double down on looking for ways to get customers into the franchise, whether it's through an online version of QuickBooks or its Payments or Payroll, and then continue to do a better job of introducing them to other products to help them solve more of their problems so we can get a higher revenue per customer. It's working, and we just have to continue to focus on it, and we think we can continue to drive the progress forward.

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

JEN SWANSON, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: It's Jen Swanson calling in on behalf of Adam. Great quarter, guys. I wanted to follow up on some of Kash's questions around the Tax business. And I think you said this, Brad, but I just wanted to confirm it. Is your sense so far -- I think last year you talked about mid-tax season where you thought you were tracking relative to the market overall. Is your sense thus far in the tax season whether you're gaining share, losing share, maintaining share? How do you think about your trajectory relative to the rest of DIY software?

And then more broadly, how has the competitive landscape shaped up thus far, and how are things tracking in terms of your own marketing push relative to maybe sales and marketing spending coming in a little lighter than some people had expected?

BRAD SMITH: Yes, Jen, I will. First of all, we'll readily admit that the transparency because of some of the data not being out there from the IRS is going to be subject to our own research or even some of our other competitors' research. So this is what we are seeing based upon the data that we can see and the studies that we conduct.

Right now, we like how we are competing for share in the marketplace. Our teams have a really good, strong plan in place. If you look at some of the apps we've introduced, we've talked about five out of five stars in the Apple App Store for our mobile offering, which is SnapTax. The iPad app for TurboTax is the highest grossing app in the Apple store.

We also have really good reviews coming in on Amazon and a lot of other sources. And that basically speaks volumes for how customers feel about the products relative to the other alternatives in the market. And we think that's showing up in our results.

In terms of competition, we really respect the competition we have. They keep us on our toes; they are good. It's fair to say that everybody out there is competing aggressively. And I think at the end of the day, that's good news for the category overall, because more people out of the 142 million who recognize that digital tax is a great way to get your taxes done. It's better for all of us, and ultimately, we are going to fight aggressively to get our fair share of that. So it is a competitive season, but it's not anything that we didn't expect.

In terms of the marketing push, we upped our spending in the first half of the season in Consumer Tax, as we said we would, but we also have plenty of firepower left to play the second half of the season as well. What we're getting, though, is better effectiveness out of our marketing investments. We're getting a higher ROI, and so that's showing up in what you're seeing as more efficiency trailing through in our sales and marketing expense.

Net net, tax season right now is playing out the way we hoped it would, and we are looking forward to finishing up strong.

JEN SWANSON: Great, thanks. And just one quick follow-up on that. In terms of -- and I would imagine mobile is still a relatively small piece of the mix overall, but are there any different behaviors from people filing their taxes by a mobile that we should be thinking about in terms of linearity of the tax season?

BRAD SMITH: Well, SnapTax is targeted to an easy filer, and many times easy filers tend to file earlier in the season area, so we are seeing some good, rapid adoption there. In terms of TurboTax for the iPad, so far we can't tell you of any particular trends that are different, other than the overwhelmingly positive feedback we're getting from the customers about the app and its ease-of-use, and their willingness to recommend it to other friends and family members. And we like that for the long-term prospects of the business.

But right now, it's still early enough in the adoption curve that there isn't a lot of themes that we can call out today, but we will certainly be sharing more with you as we head into Investor Day in the fall.

OPERATOR: Kartik Mehta, Northcoast Research.

KARTIK MEHTA, ANALYST, NORTHCOAST RESEARCH: I wanted to go back to your share in the marketplace. And I realize that IRS data is not available, so I'm wondering, based on the analytics you have, which I believe are pretty sophisticated, how do you believe think you're doing relative to the competition? And if you had to take a guess at what the category is growing on the tax side, what would you think that would be?

BRAD SMITH: Wow. This is going to be -- the second part will be conjecture; the first part I will give you based upon our analytics. Our data right now suggests that we are taking share online. It is still early enough in the season and there's a lot of game left to play, but right now we are where we hoped we would be in terms of online share. And we use the same sources we've used in the past.

In terms of retail, you can see the NPD data out there, and it suggested in the last couple of weeks that we are pretty much at par. I think they rounded down to having lost a point, it's really about 40 basis points. But given where we are in the season, what we have planned in the second half, that doesn't concern us at all. And as you know, 75% of the tax returns are now online versus retail. And so we are picking up share where we want, and we don't plan to yield share in any channel.

So right now, the results for us suggest good news. In terms of what we think is happening in the broader category, we do surveys, but usually we rely on the IRS data to also give us an independent source, and we haven't seen that data yet this year. But based upon what we are seeing, we do believe that DIY is continuing to grow faster than the other alternatives. And if you look at the last five years, we believe DIY has taken several points of share away from the stores as well as the low-end pros, and we don't see that stopping.

KARTIK MEHTA: Just one other question, Brad. How is the free tax advice -- how has that worked out? Are you seeing the customer growth you wanted to for that particular product?

BRAD SMITH: You know, Kartik, we are. In fact, we are very pleased with the results. The net promoter scores for our customers using the free tax advice are above our expectations. We are getting great feedback from customers. The adoption rate is what we hoped it would be. It's given TurboTax customers the confidence to do taxes, and if they need help, they can reach out to us.

And as you know, we have certified professionals -- they are CPAs, they are enrolled agents and they are tax attorneys. And the quality of help they are providing the customer is quite frankly, in our view, second to none, and so far the feedback has been very positive.

OPERATOR: Peter Goldmacher, Cowen and Company.

PETER GOLDMACHER, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Can you give us an update on the 700 tax accountants you've hired, and any early returns on people using them, any success you've experienced?

BRAD SMITH: Yes, Peter, that's what I just talked about a couple of minutes ago with our free tax advice. We are very pleased with the people we have on board. More importantly, our customers are very pleased with the service they are getting from these 700 plus individuals.

The net promoter scores for that free tax advice offering is actually above what we hoped it would be from a forecast perspective. It's having a halo effect on the overall product, so the overall product net promoter scores are up. And we're getting very good pass-along or word of mouth to other people based upon people who are happy with the service.

So right now we like the results. We think it's going to help us continue to grow the category, and we're looking forward to a strong second half of the season where we think it becomes even more important as people get into more complicated returns.

OPERATOR: Scott Schneeberger, Oppenheimer.

SCOTT SCHNEEBERGER, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks. A very nice quarter. Just a couple of questions on different things. With the release on the tax data year-to-date through February, you used the 18th, and then you said for last year just comparable prior-year period. Could you clarify what you used there, please?

BRAD SMITH: This year it's February 18 comparable. Matt, prior-year period -- I think we sent the release out on February 12.

MATT RHODES: We reported earnings later this year.

BRAD SMITH: And a couple of important points here, Scott, just to help clarify that. One is, as you know, when you're on a 100-day tax season, every day is meaningful. And so having that delay is going to give you a little bit of apples and oranges.

But the second piece is, keep in mind, last year the IRS had notified the industry and the taxpayers that they were going to hold certain returns and wouldn't be able to process them until around Valentine's Day. So what we released last year reflected basically some returns not being processed, and this year we are actually growing over that big bulge of February 13, 14th, and 15th, when the IRS started accepting returns and we had to grow over that. And so to be double-digits right now over that big surge, we feel good about through February 18.

MATT RHODES: Scott, it's Matt. If you were asking the date last year, it's year-to-date through February 19. That's the comparable period.

SCOTT SCHNEEBERGER: Okay, thanks. And if I understand, Matt, what you just said, so you are comparing nicely in the last four or five days or six days and comparing versus the 19th last year?

Any comments you guys could share on maybe the 12th this year versus the 12th last year, or January 31 versus January 31? I just want a feel for these first however many days it has been monthly -- month roughly, how your bell curve looks?

BRAD SMITH: Scott, if you look at the fact sheet, you'll see the 31st through the 31st, and it is sort of a quarter close versus quarter close. And then, I apologize, the 12th versus the 19th; that was my miss. But if you look at the 18th this year versus 19th last year, you can see the year-over-year comparison.

What basically happened from the time the quarter closed until this first update on February 18 is this time last year a lot of people had been notified that they didn't need to file a return, because the IRS wouldn't process until around Valentine's Day, and so you had a little bit of a surge come in in that mid-February 14, 15th timeline. And we had to grow over that from the end of this quarter to this first release.

And so the fact that we are still maintaining good, solid double-digit unit growth growing over that surge gives us confidence that we are where we want to be right now at this point in the season.

SCOTT SCHNEEBERGER: I hate to bring up one of the other blemishes -- not that that just was. But the Quicken, could you speak to what occurred there? Was that expected or was that a little bit of a surprise?

BRAD SMITH: First of all, I hope you don't see that tax result as a blemish.

SCOTT SCHNEEBERGER: No, absolutely not. That was a misspeak. That was great.

BRAD SMITH: That's okay. Now, Quicken, on the other hand, quite frankly, what we see right now is the ongoing shift away from desktop software, particularly in that category, to digital solutions in the cloud and to mobile apps. Mint is growing very quickly, and it's exceeding our expectations on customer acquisition. We obviously have opportunities to continue to accelerate monetization there.

But in Quicken, we have a Windows-based version of the desktop. We don't have a Mac version that's up to par for what our Mac customers are looking for. And we have not been able to capitalize on some of the newer devices, particularly for customers that want to use mobile apps and tablets. And so our team is basically taking a hard look at what do we need to do to breathe some new life into that franchise. And I guarantee, if the teams on it right now, that that's really the disappointment is that business needs a makeover, and we are in the process of doing just that.

OPERATOR: Gil Luria, Wedbush Securities.

GIL LURIA, ANALYST, WEDBUSH SECURITIES: First, I'll start with a follow-up to the seasonal question. Last year, how long did that surge last? How many more days in February did it last before you started getting back the usual patterns? When we get the March update, will that be apples-to-apples versus last year?

BRAD SMITH: It's hard to tell. And to be candid with you, the surge last year came in -- there was a window of three days where we did see a little bit of a volume uptick that basically allowed us to get through some of that backlog of returns.

But as you know, the season continues to shift further out. We went into this season fully expecting the seasonality to look more like it did two years ago, since there wasn't any delay in processing from the IRS anticipated. So right now what we are seeing is this tax year is somewhere between last year and the year before, and so it's kind of hard to call the seasonality curve.

I can tell you right now what we feel good about is we are out of the gate strong. And each day that we are able to monitor the results up through the release today, we are performing at or above the expected levels we had hoped for, and that's pretty much where we are going to play the rest of the season. So I wish I could give you a little more information. Until the IRS actually publishes data, we are all in the same boat. We are relying on our own internal data, and right now we feel good about how the curve is playing out, but it's different than what we had originally anticipated.

GIL LURIA: And then in terms of your Small Business unit, for you to get to your guidance range, especially in the middle or top end of that, revenue would have to re-accelerate. Which of the businesses there do you expect to re-accelerate in the balance of the year?

BRAD SMITH: Well, a couple of things to keep in mind. Payments and Payroll are doing very well right now, and FMS is doing well if you adjust for the fact that last year in the first half of the year we had some strong grow overs that we had to comp against. We had a 15% growth in the first quarter last year and 21% growth in the second quarter, driven by a price increase in QuickBooks, and the fact that we had backed off on some deep promotional discounting through the recession.

As we look at the back half of the year, we expect strong performance across the Small Business franchise, and that's why we reiterated our guidance for the Small Business Group overall that we provided at the first of the year.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays. .

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Following on that question -- first of all, congratulations, great quarter, and thanks for taking my question. Can you talk a little bit about the dynamics that you see in Desktop/Online, especially on Desktop? Do you see that being a stable business? Is there a risk that at some point it goes into decline (inaudible)?

BRAD SMITH: Are you asking specifically about a particular business?

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Sorry, that's on QuickBooks. Sorry.

BRAD SMITH: Okay. Well, what we're seeing right now on QuickBooks is year-to-date, the desktop customers -- the units are down about 2% in terms of the units sold. With that being said, the online version is up 35%.

But you've got to keep that in perspective. We've got 4 million installed QuickBooks customers, and we have 326,000 or either 230,000 on QuickBooks online customers. So it's growing off of a smaller base.

If we had to take a look at what we think the future will be, you're going to continue to see a faster growth rate in online than desktop. But a lot of customers really want to have their accounting information on the desktop, so we so don't see it going away anytime soon. But we don't see it growing at the same rate as online.

And one of the things we're doing with our desktop customers is providing them the ability to get their data up into the cloud so they can access their information through their mobile phone or a tablet. And we think that will also give some more continuity to the desktop customers. So net net, online we expect to grow faster than desktop. And we think that desktop is going to be around for many years to come, as well, as some customers prefer it, and as we make it easier for them to access it through mobile devices, they will get the best of both worlds.

OPERATOR: Greg Dunham, Goldman Sachs.

GREG DUNHAM, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I did want to follow up quickly on the free tax advice dynamic. Are you seeing anything different in the profile of customers that are attaching to that program? Anything that you've learned here in the initial rollout of that plan?

BRAD SMITH: You know, Greg, it's still early. I'll tell you a couple of things -- we just went through an operating review with the tax team on Friday, and then we had an update again last night. Right now it's pulling the kind of customers in we hoped it would -- people who use tax software but have a little bit of concern that they may get something wrong, and those people who may actually have been using a competitive alternative, like a tax store, and they were simply looking for the confidence of having someone to call, and they were willing to do the work themselves.

The surprise so far is it has also helped us get even deeper into first-time filers, people that are coming into the category for the first time. And that's good news for us because, as you know, in a normal year between 3 million to 5 million new people who enter the tax category for the first time. And by introducing free tax advice that was a surprise that we are willing to step back and figure out how we can exploit even more. But it's helping us get new customers who are coming into the tax industry for the first time.

GREG DUNHAM: Interesting. And switching gears, one quick question -- Financial Services had another kind of 9% to 10% growth quarter, kind of the two best quarters that you've had in a while in that business. What's driving that? Do you feel that level is sustainable for the near to medium future?

BRAD SMITH: Thanks for calling that out. We are very proud of the performance that team is delivering. First and foremost that performance, by the way, even included the fact that we had one of our larger banks get acquired by another bank, and that bank decided to take their services in-house. And so we even had that sort of subtraction happening and still delivered those kinds of results.

I'll tell you right now the bookings we have in the pipeline, the people we have under contract in terms of the number of end-users is as much in the first half of this year as it was in the entire full year last year. And so we've got a good healthy pipeline, we are going to have to get those customers implemented and activated. What's driving it is our mobile suite. We have 1.6 million customers now using the mobile app to do their banking, and that's 3X higher than it was last year.

And there's a real win for the bank here. The average customer that does online banking visits their bank site 10 times a month. Those that use our mobile banking product on the phone they come in 21 times a month, and for those that are using the tablet, the iPad, they are coming in 35 times a month. And so it's increasing engagement, which is good for the customer and it's good for the bank, and that's why I think we are able to continue to grow and outperform what we are seeing happening at some of the other competitors in the market.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I wonder if you could just talk about the Small Business environment in general? We've seen some green shoots in that market with (inaudible) numbers like NFID and so forth. I'm just wondering maybe on a scale of 1 to 10 how healthy do you think your customer base is? And enterprise has recovered large something because they have recovered much faster. Are we -- do you feel like we've turned a corner in Small Business at this point? And what signs of that are you seeing in your numbers here and in your forward-looking sort of things you monitor?

BRAD SMITH: I'm sorry, we had a bad reception. It was hard to hear the question. If you don't mind, could you repeat the question?

WALTER PRITCHARD: Sure. Can you hear me any better, Brad?

BRAD SMITH: Yes, it's a little better.

WALTER PRITCHARD: The question was just on the Small Business side, I'm wondering -- you know, we've seen some signs of improving economic metrics around small business. And NFID, for example, started to turn positive and show some optimism (inaudible) and hiring intentions and so forth that are better. I'm wondering, where do you feel like you are on a scale of 1 to 10 in terms of the health of your Small Business' customer base? And what do you see in the numbers here today and in your forward-looking things you monitor around Small Business health?

BRAD SMITH: Got it. Okay, thank you. We are seeing some modest improvement in the indicators, just as you referenced the NFID. We look at more tangible things in our customer base which help us see whether they are changing their behaviors.

Our Small Business employment index suggests that they are starting to hire modestly again on an annualized rate of about 2.9% in terms of hiring employees. Total charge volume at our customers was up about 10% year-over-year, which means customers are starting to shop with their businesses.

But that being said, it's not robust. But it's certainly moving in the right direction. So on a 1 to 10 scale, with 10 being a full recovery like it was in 2007, I'd peg it somewhere in the 7 and moving north. But it has still got a ways to go to get back to full health.

The good news for us is the kind of products and services that we create help small businesses in any condition. They helped them basically get customers, help them save time and be more productive, and help them pay their employees in a way that's a much better alternative than a more expensive outsource provider. So as long as we continue to get our solutions in front of customers, regardless of how quickly the recovery happens, we think we can continue to deliver the kind of results we been producing.

OPERATOR: Jim McDonald, First Analysis.

JIM MACDONALD, ANALYST, FIRST ANALYSIS: Great quarter, guys. Going back to TurboTax and the price mix, any feeling of whether you're going to be able to get as much price mix on TurboTax as you got last year with less outright price increase?

NEIL WILLIAMS: Hey Jim, it's Neil. Our plan is still to continue to try to grow the category and to drive units. We certainly enjoyed a favorable mix this year and last year -- so far through this year. But our plan is to continue to try to attract new users.

And so we continue to build out the product, we continue to help the upsell process, but it's still about new units. It's still about growing the category and growing our share of the category. So if the favorable upsell comes, that will be wonderful. But that's really not what we're solving for, we're really trying to grow the category and grow the units.

JIM MACDONALD: Great. And then as a follow-up, for Accounting Professionals, did that business get affected much last year? It didn't seem to show the bounce back of the firm's availability issues last year. So is there any of that issue in the Accounting Professionals business that affected the year-over-year comparison?

NEIL WILLIAMS: Not really, Jim. It's been a pretty clear second quarter for the Accounting Professionals Group. As you know, most of those are on a membership basis, and their busy time really comes in our Q3, because they actually file the returns, but the compare there is pretty clean.

OPERATOR: Philip Rueppel, Wells Fargo Securities.

PHILIP RUEPPEL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Just another question on the Consumer Tax business. You mentioned briefly, Brad, that the attach rate or the revenue per return you were quite pleased with the trend so far. Is there any seasonality around that -- would that change at all throughout the rest of the tax season or is that something you think you can maintain?

BRAD SMITH: Right now, we believe that what we are seeing is consistent with what we wanted to see in the first part of the season, and it should maintain throughout the season. So there is nothing fundamentally different what we've seen in the first part of the year that would lead us to believe it will be different in the second part.

As Neil just said, our first opportunity and our first focus is to grow the category and get customers. And then if we're successful in getting them matched up against the right tax product that helps us drive favorable mix. And our teams are getting better and better at helping the customer identify which tax product is right for their situation, and we don't see that changing for the back half of this season, either.

OPERATOR: Laura Lederman, William Blair.

LAURA LEDERMAN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: Congratulations on the quarter as well. Can you talk a little bit about the free tax advice and a sense of how widely people use that, and long-term how you expect that to affect the profitability of that business and how you know to hire the right amount of people? So I'd like to understand that concept a little bit better. And then I have one follow-up.

BRAD SMITH: Do you want to take this one, or do you want me to take this one, Neil?

NEIL WILLIAMS: You go ahead and start, and I'll talk about how we allocated and -- okay?

BRAD SMITH: So, Laura, right now one of the things that we were talking about in Friday's operating review with the Tax business is just how closely they nailed the demand for that and how prepared the team was in terms of having the right number of agents hired and the quality of the agents.

So, so far for us, the good news is the customers really like the service. It's helping us do a good job of taking customers from the areas that we had hoped we were going to be able to get customers from. And it has also helped us strengthen our value proposition for people who are filing taxes for the first time, which is great for the franchise long-term.

So we like everything we are seeing with free tax advice right now. And also, the demand in terms of the people adopting it is pretty much on target with what the team had forecasted. I think as you get into the second half of the season and people move from the easier returns to the more complicated returns the service will be one that will be even more readily in demand. And our team is fully prepared for that.

So so far, everything is playing out the way we had hoped, and we are very pleased with the results. We are glad we have this as a part of the value proposition this year. Do you have anything you wanted to add to that, Neil?

NEIL WILLIAMS: The only thing I would add to that, Laura, is we talk a lot about the number of people actually performing the work, but I would tell you, this is a much more holistic effort to make sure we have good tools to use, to be sure that we can find the answers readily and quickly, and to incorporate all the devices that we've built over the last few years, including live community, our internal folks who work while you're working on your return, as well as the free tax advice.

So there are a number of tools and processes we put in place to really improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the free tax advice experts, the people that are actually fielding the call, as well as our own internal team. So there're lots of improvements and innovation we've put in place around this to provide the free tax advice.

LAURA LEDERMAN: Does it impact the profitability much of that business, or is it such a small usage, because you're using people in other ways -- I'm just trying to understand its impact on profitability short-term and also long-term?

NEIL WILLIAMS: Well, Laura, the impact of that and the cost shift is included in the guidance we've given for the full year and for Q3, so you can see the impact that we expected to have this year.

But this is a very profitable business for us longer-term, and so again, the name of the game for us is to grow the business, and there're plenty of opportunity, we think, for us to grow and to invest in the business and continue to attract customers at very profitable returns. So it's more, again, about customer acquisition and less about being defensive about our profit margins.

LAURA LEDERMAN: Fair enough. A totally different question -- could you talk a little bit about the acceleration of the monetization of Mint? And maybe just status of some different things you're doing with that technology and where it is at so we can get a sense of return on investment from buying it?

BRAD SMITH: Yes. So right now the monetization for Mint, when you look at the online version on the Web, continues to perform very well. One of the things that we've noticed is as more and more customers begin to access Mint through their mobile devices the monetization models aren't readily transferable.

And so we're getting very rapid customer adoption, really good feedback in terms of the customer experience, but we're having to innovate to look for creative ways to continue to look for monetization models there.

By the way, I am really happening happy this is happening in Mint, because this is the precursor to pretty much any businesses that continue to see more adoption of mobile devices. You want to make sure that you have all the opportunity to experiment with monetization models. And so right now, what we are seeing with Mint is a really good adoption and a shift to mobile devices. And how can we capitalize on that is a way to also find monetization models that will keep pace with the customer growth? So far, it's good.

If you actually look at how Mint is helping me the rest of the Company, one of the primary focus areas we talked about at Investor Day was improving our first use experiences of all of our products. For every 100 customers that come in and use a product for the first time, how many come back and use it a second time?

Mint is the best in class, and they have been basically inspiring the rest of the Company to reduce the number of clicks to get to the outcome quickly. They're also helping us look at some new services in healthcare as well as in Small Business that you'll hear more about later when we announce those. So net net, Mint is playing a very strategic role for us, and we're excited about the growth rate of the Company -- or the business unit and we're also looking at ways to continue to accelerate the monetization models.

OPERATOR: Brad Zelnick, Macquarie Research.

BRAD ZELNICK, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: As we march further into tax season, Brad, it seems like there's a lot of competition for eyeballs. Just qualitatively, it seems your competition is a bit more visible this year. So my question is around the ROI on your marketing spend, which I think you touched on in an earlier question.

But can you maybe share specifics on how the ROI is tracking versus your expectation? And is this a improving along with a shift to an online business, and should we therefore expect it to continue indefinitely as that trend plays out?

BRAD SMITH: First of all, I think your qualitative assessment is consistent with ours. It is certainly a nice competitive tax season to have a lot of people out there talking about the value and the benefits of digital path solutions. And that's good news for us, because I think that gets more people looking at digital solutions, and we think we can compete once we get people into the category.

In terms of our marketing efficiency and effectiveness, our TurboTax business, I would argue, is arguably probably the best and most sophisticated marketing team we have. They are very good at understanding the ROI on every dollar they spend. They are an experimentation machine. They run AB tests. They are able to figure out which ones have the highest yield. And that's why you heard some of the responses from me and Neil about our marketing efficiency and effectiveness in the first half.

And so right now we are seeing a good ROI on those dollars. And we plan to compete aggressively for the balance of the season, which was already in our plan. And in terms of the other people out there with us, I think that's only good news for the category long-term.

BRAD ZELNICK: Just the last part of my question -- is this reflective of a shift in the business to online? And is it fair to assert assume that the ROI in online marketing dollars is better than for traditional media?

NEIL WILLIAMS: It's probably easier to match it up and to adjust it more quickly. As Brad mentioned, the TurboTax team is really good at understanding and testing different approaches and different ideas, and investing in those that work and pulling back on those and adjusting. So the thing we like about it is the ease of which you can expand or contract based on the responses you're getting and based on your test results. So from that standpoint alone, the online offering is much more effective and allows you to invest much more effectively.

BRAD ZELNICK: Thanks, Neil. If I could just follow up with one other. 17% growth in Payments was stronger than we had expected. It was a great result, but the number of merchant account customers were up less sequentially than they had been in many quarters. So following up on Walter's question earlier, I guess this, along with charge volume per merchant, seemed a bit weaker than we'd expect looking at trends in small business optimism and the other various indicators that we look at.

So I know this is a huge opportunity, but how did this compare to your expectations, and how do you feel about your share here in this category?

NEIL WILLIAMS: Well, certainly the last part first. We think there're lots of opportunity for the share. Our penetration in the QuickBooks space with our Payments offering is certainly not where we need it to be, and it's not where other offerings like Payroll are. So we think there're tons of opportunity there, and I can promise you, we are laser focused on that.

In terms of the processing volume and the volume per merchant, I think what you're seeing is a reflection of the GoPayment merchants we are adding. We love that as a way to add merchant accounts and add new customers to the franchise and bring them in, but they don't bring the same level of processing volume as our more traditional QuickBooks merchant services type customers. And that's just the way the business is evolving. That's fine with us. So that is what I think what you see reflected in the merchant growth and processing volume factors.

OPERATOR: Ross MacMillan, Jeffries.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, JEFFRIES: Brad, I know there is a lot of noise in the compare in the Consumer Tax business thus far in the season. But as you think about the digital category, do you think there's actually a chance for the digital category growth this year to be better than last year, i.e., acceleration in digital this year?

BRAD SMITH: You know, I will tell you what I can fall back on and then I will answer the question that you put on the table. I can fall back on the last half a dozen years when you look at the data reported by the IRS that showed that the digital tax category is growing 6% to 7% on an annualized basis, and that is twice as fast as the second closest alternative.

And I can also fall back on other analogs and ask the question of what has happened in book sales or what has happened in video sales, or what has happened in banking? And what you see is more and more of an adoption to digital solutions to do the most important things in our lives or to make the kinds of purchases that we are looking to make.

And so I look as I look at that trend, and you introduce new things like mobile apps and products on the tablet and you look at our five-star ratings and the fact that we have the highest grossing app in the App Store with our tablet, I think that this shift to digital is only going to continue. Whether it will show up this year as faster growth than last year it is hard to tell, because we don't have any real data to fall back on. But I sure like the trend over the next 5 to 10 years, and I'm glad we are in the position we're in right now.

ROSS MACMILLAN: That makes sense. Thank you. And then two quick ones. I noticed QuickBooks units picked up. I think it's the first positive growth number we've had there for some time. And I was just wondering if you could talk to that, whether there was any promotional activity or any other shift in that number.

And then I had one for Neil. Just on the guidance for the full year the non-GAAP operating income is up only a little bit -- I think $5 million -- but we're getting a $0.05 increase on EPS. Could you just bridge the two? Thanks.

BRAD SMITH: Let me take the QuickBooks question. So what we're seeing is continuing strong performance in QuickBooks Online, QuickBooks Enterprise, and all the Connected Services that are coming in that Financial Management sector. It is growing 35% in online, 22% in enterprise, and that just continues to build momentum.

We are also past the grow over of the free sample start that we had out in the market for some period of time, and so we are now starting to get more of an apples-to-apples compare, and we're starting to see that positive momentum build.

And quite frankly, our QuickBooks Desktop offering this year was one of the best quality offerings we have put in the market in several years. And our ratings on the Amazon stores and in other key channels are reflecting that. And I think you see that showing up as well. So it's a combination of those things that are helping us post positive overall unit growth, and our plan is to continue to push in that direction.

NEIL WILLIAMS: On the EPS question, the thing you have to take into account is we guided to a share reduction this year of about 3.5% or 4%, so that's going to cause you to have a little better outcome in EPS than you see in operating income per se. Beyond that, there are just a few items dealing with rounding and dealing with the fact that Q1 of the year is a period that would show a loss, and so we use primary instead of fully diluted shares. But the primary driver there is reduction in the share count.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Great. Congratulations. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Yun Kim, ThinkEquity.

YUN KIM, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY: Congrats on another solid quarter on your Small Business Group, especially on the margin front. For Payments part of the business specifically, can you qualify how were you able to improve your margins there quite a bit in your Payment business despite GoPayment driving much of the growth, which I'm assuming is not yet a high-margin business or is that a wrong assumption?

NEIL WILLIAMS: No, I think that's a good assumption, Yun. I think the biggest driver there we talked about and we called out is some pricing changes we made this year early in the season. And you may recall, last year the card networks passed along some price increases that we waited about six months before we passed through to our customers. So we were a little late repricing our services and getting the full effect of that last year. Those price changes are in this year and so you're seeing about half of the growth rate you're seeing in the revenue come from rates and adjustment changes we made, some in the last part of last year, some early part of this year. But really catching up with some of the network fees and charges that had been passed through.

YUN KIM: Okay, great. And then just if you guys, if you talk about the attach rate or the ability to cross-sell additional products or services to the GoPayment customers, which I am assuming is fairly lower-end of your core QuickBooks installed base, but perhaps more tax savvy than the rest?

BRAD SMITH: One of the first jobs that a small business has is to get a customer, and then the second job is to actually get that customer to pay them. And so what we are finding is that GoPayment and Payments are nice front doors to get people into the franchise, and that's playing out in the fact that 70% of these customers are new to Intuit for the first time.

Now, our ability to help them grow and become successful enough that they then they need accounting solutions is our next game. As once you've got that customer and you've got a payment, you want to record that in an accounting package, and that's why we're working with QuickBooks Online and the lower-end version of QuickBooks to be able to have that solution unlock into a QuickBooks product.

So right now, early days, it is bringing new people into the franchise as we'd hoped. And we do have a suite of other solutions we'll be looking to cross-sell into that GoPayment customer base as they continue to grow in size and start to have additional needs that we can help them solve.

YUN KIM: Do you expect to offer more of a low-end version of your core products and services to better target GoPayment customers?

BRAD SMITH: We do have services today that we work with those smaller customers, and we have lots of small experiments going on, as we speak, looking for other ways to make it simple for them to solve just a piece of a problem as opposed to a full accounting product. You'll hear more about that from us in the future.

But right now, we have solutions that help very small customers do the important things they need to do, once they realize that they want to move beyond just accepting a payment. So, yes, we do have those solutions, and you are going to see us focus more in that area as we go forward.

OPERATOR: Sterling Auty, J.P. Morgan.

SAKET KALIA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: It's Saket here for Sterling. Two quick questions, if I can. So first, just to dig a little bit deeper into the ROI question, can you maybe point to one or two things the TurboTax marketing team did differently in the quarter that drove the higher ROI in sales and marketing? And do you think it will continue for the remainder of the year?

And then secondly, you talked about at the Analyst Day how you're improving some of the sticking points in TurboTax as filers navigated through their filing. Do you think those efforts have helped in the retention rate so far this season?

BRAD SMITH: Let me answer the first question by talking about the approach and process as opposed to the specific things that have actually happened, because I don't want to tip our hand as we are in the middle of a tax season out there and give anybody else a hint.

Our team has gotten very good at developing hypotheses and running AB tests to see which outperformed the other. And this is a lean startup methodology that early-stage startups do that we really continue to practice and try to refine across the Company. And what it basically does is it removes what we call hippos, which are highly paid personal opinions, where people think they have a great idea and then you go execute it to actually running fast experiments and putting them in front of customers and being able to run a little traffic through it and see if it outperforms the other alternatives.

And as Neil said, in a Web-based world, that is so much easier to do. And we can literally run quick volume through, and if it outperforms, we shift over the total volume of that particular implementation. So that's what we are doing is we are getting faster rapid experiments up and we are able to prove through real data whether or not it's going to outperform or not, and that's what's driving the efficiency and effectiveness.

The second part of the question was on --?

SAKET KALIA: Just kind of improving the retention rates from some of the sticking points that you've improved in TurboTax.

BRAD SMITH: Thank you. Right now we are seeing good results in the funnel. It's hard to tell until we get through season and look at next year whether it will have the impact we believe it will have on retention, but all the leading indicators that we can see in the middle of the season are actually performing the way we had hoped in terms of customers getting through the screens or getting past the areas that last year we noticed them struggling with. So far, the early indicators are good, and we hope that will show up in the retention numbers as we roll into next year and customers have to make their decision once again.

OPERATOR: Michael Millman, Millman Research.

MICHAEL MILLMAN, ANALYST, MILLMAN RESEARCH: Thank you. I have some more tax questions. One, can you tell us what the number of forms that are generated from the software -- from one software is and how that compares with what it was over the past couple of years?

And then secondly, you did indicate on the TurboTax that you've seen increase in new filings, and maybe you can quantify that, and also possibly the same for shift from other methods and the shift from pen and paper as well?

BRAD SMITH: I will be the first to admit we can't answer the question -- or I can't answer the question on the number of forms and software. I do know that we have a very robust product that handles federal, state, and local taxes, and so we are able to handle those situations. I couldn't begin to quantify the number of forms. And I can't tell you it's materially different year-over-year, because that legislation happens in all the local markets.

But I know that our team has a product out there that basically is able to address those situations; unfortunately, I can't qualify that quantify that for you.

In terms of the source of the new customers, I alluded to this earlier -- I don't want to get too precise right now because we are still halfway through season, and I want to be able to play out the full season to see if it basically finishes the way it is right now. But we are seeing the ability for us to convert from competitive alternatives, not just software but also tax stores and low-end pros. And we are seeing better results and we are excited about the better results of continuing to build on our own track record of getting first-time filers in the software.

Software has always been a very strong solution for that digitally savvy group, so with the introduction of free tax advice, we are seeing a little acceleration in that area. So far we like what we are seeing in terms of our sources of new customers.

In terms of manual, you know as well as we do the number of people who are filing in paper and pencil have gone down each and every year. Last year the IRS helped push that a little further along by not mailing the forms out. And so did the sources of people coming from paper and pencil are down versus where they might've been in years past.

But we shared in our September Investor Day, despite what some people may have thought, we've never had a predominant portion of our customers coming from paper and pencil. In fact, we showed a pie chart in that PowerPoint that showed that showed it was a lower number than I think many people attributed. So the fact that it's declining has not shown up in terms of our unit growth that we just reported, because we've been able to get customers from other sources as well.

MICHAEL MILLMAN: So that continues to decline?

BRAD SMITH: It does.

OPERATOR: Thank you. I am showing no further questions. I would like to hand the conference back over for any closing remarks.

BRAD SMITH: I want to thank everybody for their questions. We feel good about the second-quarter and the first-half results. Obviously we're halfway through a busy season here. It's an exciting time on the Intuit campuses at this time of year every year.

We appreciate you hanging in there with us, and we are looking forward to speaking with you again in May. With that, we'll wrap it up, and we'll look forward to talking to you soon.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes our program. You may all disconnect. And have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc | irevs : Internal Revenue Service | ituit : Intuit Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | girs : Internal Revenue Service | gvexe : Executive Branch | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvtre : Treasury Department | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
nkorea : North Korea | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120307e82l00003
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Telefonica Brasil SA Earnings Conference Call (English) - Final
   WC
9,310 words
   PD
16 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. At this time, we would like to welcome everyone to the Telefonica Brasil Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.

   TD
Today, with us we have Mr. Paulo Cesar Pereira Teixeira, CEO of Telefonica Brasil and Ms. Cristiane Barretto, Controller, Director of Telefonica Brasil.

Today, we have a simultaneous webcast with slide presentation on the Internet that can be accessed at www.telefonica.com.br/investidores. There will be a replay facility for this call on the website. After the Company's remarks are over, there will be a question-and-answer section. At that time, further instructions will be given. (Operator Instructions).

Before proceeding, let me mention that forward-looking statements are being made under the Safe Harbor of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1996.

Forward-looking statements are based on the Company's management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, because they relate to future events, and therefore, depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. Investors should understand that general economic conditions, industry conditions and other operating factors could also affect the Company's future results and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements.

For comparative purposes, the 4Q '10, year-to-date 2011 and 2010 figures were prepared on a combined basis. Thus, the quarterly and annual variations presented may differ from those reported in the financial statements filed with CVM through the form Quarterly Information, ITR.

Now, I will turn the conference over to Mr. Paulo Cesar Pereira Teixeira, CEO of Telefonica Brasil. Mr. Teixeira, you may begin your conference.

CARLOS RAIMAR, IR OFFICER, TELEFONICA BRASIL SA: Good morning. Here is Carlos Raimar, the IR Officer. Thank you for attending this conference. From this quarter on, due to the conclusion of the integration process in which Vivo Part was incorporated into Telesp, and after that renamed it as Telefonica Brasil, and also with the transfer of the fixed authorization and the long distance authorization to Vivo SA, that is the full subsidiary of Telefonica Brasil, this happened on October 20. We are presenting the numbers and indicators after eliminating intercompany revenues and allocating long distance revenue according to the origin of the call.

This will provide a clearer way to analyze our figures and at the same time prepare the path to perceive the totally integrated company. Now, I offer the floor to Paulo Cesar Teixeira for the presentation of the operational performance. After that Cristiane will present our financials and Paulo again will conclude the presentation with strategic update of Telefonica Brasil.

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA, CEO, TELEFONICA BRASIL SA: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Raimar. I would like to thank all of you for attending this conference of the fourth quarter and 2011 results of Telefonica Brasil.

On page 5, Sempre's quarter, when we present our stats, our commercial performance has been extremely solid and consistent. First of all, our prepaid promotion, Vivo Sempre, launched in the third quarter has already shown very positive results. We did significantly acquisition and recharge level.

In addition to the growth in prepaid, we have been able to enhance year-over-year our mix of postpaid and data customers, and maintain our leadership with focus on quality. This has been mainly supported by an increasing 3G coverage reaching our total coverage about 2,500 municipalities more than some of our competitors. And the launch of the new postpaid plans with [unlimited] voice, messaging and long distance offering the best solution in quality and price in Brazil.

In data, we launched our HSPA+ plans in Sao Paulo for high end users and we built one more step to enhance data revenue. We are also expanding our coverage in ultra broadband in Sao Paulo reaching more than 1.7 million homes passed, 6,000 kilometers of fiber, only in FTTH solution.

We are accelerating the sales of ultra broadband plans and have more than 160,000 clients at the end of the year, out of their 50,000 in fiber-to-the-home in December, and almost 60,000 in January. We are now the largest provider of FTTH in Latin America.

Our fixed wireless solution is now in five important metropolitan areas, our capital series, and should expand more in the next months on track with our plan to expand six operations outside of Sao Paulo. Our sales performance will continue to drive our market share of accesses in revenue, in our positioning as an integrated provider.

Slide 6 shows that we continue to see accelerated growth in total accesses made, led by the mobile business. As we can see on the chart on the left, in this quarter, we had 15.2% increase in accesses year-over-year, with a total of almost 87 million accesses enhancing our position as the largest telecom community in Brazil. The mobile segment grew 18.7% compared to the last year and reached 71 million accesses. On the fixed side, we managed to keep the business stable year-over-year.

As shown on the graph on the right, the Company achieved approximately 11 million new mobile accesses with 4.5 million during the fourth quarter. 31% of the net ads in the year were in the postpaid segment keeping our leadership in the segment with 42% market share of postpaid net additions. In the prepaid segment, net additions accounted for 7.8 million accesses, an increase of 37% over 2010 even considering that we had an additional 1 million connections of [net] prepaid customers.

In slide 7, we showed the mobile commercial performance in more detail. In the fourth quarter, we improved our customer mix with annual growth of 27.6% in postpaid clients versus a blended growth of 18.7%. In addition, we reached a market share of 36.6% in the postpaid segment increasing our leadership on the annual comparison.

In the data segment, we kept enlarging our lead and reached 43.4% of the modern and end-to-end market as indicated on the graph on the top right. Now, on the right we can see that we managed to increase our ARPU for the second consecutive quarter even after eliminating intercompany revenues and considering the fast growth presented of our access base.

The total mobile ARPU reaches BRL24.6, an increase of 2.9% over the last quarter. Over the last year, ARPU decreased 3.3% due to the dilution effect caused by the strong additions in the prepaid segment. On the other hand, the data ARPU grew 19% year-over-year, the main drivers for this growth were the sales of smartphones and fixed data package associated that grew three times year-over-year and the sales of data cards.

In slide 8, we highlight the civilization of fixed business. In fixed broadband, we grew the number of accesses by 9.5% year-over-year, and [likely increased] voice in the corporate segment. As a result, the ratio of broadband over voice accesses keeps climbing, reaching 33% in the quarter versus 29% in the fourth quarter of 2010. In the case of fiber-to-the-home, we accelerated the deployment of this solution, and at the same time, increased substantially our customer base during the last three months.

In addition, pay TV accesses in the year shown on the bottom graph on the right reached a significant increase of 43.7% mainly driven by the consolidation of TVA's pay TV business as of the second quarter of 2011. Excluding this impact, the organic growth would be of 12.2% compared to the fourth quarter 2010. In an effort to increase profitability and loyalty of our customers, we are also seeing good results in the sales of duos and trios to our customer base. Today, almost 8% of pay TV customers already have trios.

Looking at the slide 9, we can see there is our successful commercial strategy drove revenue acceleration contributing to build a strong set of financial results in the quarter. Our services revenue growth in the year-over-year comparison accelerated from 5.6% in the previous quarter to 6.3% as a result of the strong commercial performance during the year driven by our unique portfolio of products and capabilities. Accumulated EBITDA grew 6.4% on an annual basis reaching BRL12 billion with an accumulated margin of 36.3%. Net income totaled BRL5.1 billion, a growth of 18% year-over-year.

Now, Cristiane will give you some details on the financials and I will come back to give more specifics about the Company's strategy.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO, CONTROLLER AND DIRECTOR, TELEFONICA BRASIL SA: Thanks, Paulo Cesar and good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

On slide 11, we can see that mobile net service revenue as intercompany eliminations in the fourth quarter of 2011, grew by 14.1% year-over-year following the trend of growth acceleration we presented in the third quarter of 2011. In comparison with the previous quarter, this increase was 8.7%. Because of the increase in customer base, improvements in the mix in new campaigns and incentives outgoing usage, voice revenues grew 11.5% year-over-year, mainly related to the growth of long distance revenue boosted by promotional campaigns launch in during 2011.

The use of data and value-added services continue to be the main driver of the service growth and reached 33% of the mobile outgoing revenue in the quarter. We will see the data revenue in detail in the next slide. In the year, mobile service revenue increased 12.6% also driven by data revenue growth.

On slide 12, digging a little more into the source of our growth; we can perceive that the Company kept [an accelerator] to the pace in data revenue growth during the quarter, reaching 40.8% year-over-year. This performance was mainly driven by the SMS/MMS revenue, which recorded an important growth of 45.5% in the fourth quarter of 2011.

In addition, Internet revenues increased by 28.1% in the same period accounting for more than 50% of the data revenue. It's also important to point out the year-over-year increase of 82.2% in other data and VAS revenues, driven by interactive services based on the messaging P2A. Other new services like financial services, PTT, and over the top application, download of content and applications among others are now on the first time helping to deliver this growth. In the year, data revenues accumulated a 41.5% growth.

In slide 13, we can absorb the evolution of wireline revenues, which reduced 3.8% annually and 1.2% quarterly as per the graph on the left. Voice revenue, that includes voice, access and network usage reached an annual decrease of 12.3%, mainly explained by reduction of traffic originated by fixed access and by lower customer base, both do mainly to fixed mobile distribution.

Data transmission and pay TV revenues recorded annual growth of 13.6% despite increasing compact TV environment. The data positive evolution is related to the Company's commitment to quality in our commercial efforts in the period, both reflected in a higher quantity of access.

All this performance reflected in the mix of service provided present an increase of data transmission Pay TV, which already represents 31% of 2011 revenues. In the year, fixed revenues presented a small decrease of 1.2%.

On slide 14, the comment is on operating cost compared 2011 versus 2010. The total operating cost totaled BRL21.1 billion 2011, 4.8% higher than 2010. The variation is due to the increase of selling expenses in services rendered.

The cost of service rendered increased by 5% compared to 2010 due to the higher expenses with interconnection of sales -- pushing from sales related to much higher commercial activity and higher revenues in the periods compared. Selling expenses increased by 7.4% over the previous year due to higher expenses with third-party services.

In particular communication, call center, marketing and commission expenses due to the hiring volume of additions in the year, and the launching of our new and unique portfolio of offers in 2011.

General and administrative expenses rose 7.8% in 2011 compared to previous year due to the third-party expenses. Personnel costs rose 5% on an annual basis, which is the last in accumulated inflation in the period.

On slide 15, we can show in the top the EBITDA margin reached 38.5%, plus 4.4 percentage points over last quarter. Excluding BRL380 million in non-strategic items, the evolution would be stable as increase in commission cost related to new consumer addition was compensated by additional revenue growth. In the early comparison the combined EBITDA margin recorded an increase of 40 basis points in which 36.3% in 2011.

EBITDA totaled BRL12 billion with a 6.4% growth year-over-year. The operating profit, in the bottom on the left, decreased 4.2% in the fourth quarter of 2011 over the same quarter of last year mainly because of the growth of 27.7% in depreciation and amortization in the period.

In the right top, we show the financial results with an improvement of BRL50 million in the annual comparison meaning to the lower net debt. Comparing 2011 against 2010, the improvement was of BRL275 million. The operational performance combined with the consistent financial management led to a net income of BRL5.1 billion in 2011, 18% higher than 2010 on pro forma basis.

On slide 16, we can notice that the consolidated CapEx amounted to BRL5.7 billion in 2011, an increase of 16.4% year-over-year. This evolution is mainly explained by the spectrum acquired by Vivo in around BRL800 million accounted as CapEx on May 2011. By excluding these events, the CapEx would have remained stable reaching a CapEx per sales of 15.3% in the period.

The Company's commitment to offer the best service quality in the market, drives its investment policy that this year focus on increasing network capacity, quality and coverage, especially in fiber and 3G. We have invested also in information technology in order to support the customer base growth, and its increased voice and data usage in both fixed and mobile segment, also with focus on ultra broadband.

The gross debt, on the right top, increased by 8.1% annually, and reached BRL6.2 billion in 2011 due to the use of BRL1 billion out of this BRL3 billion credit forward by BNDES to be used in three years. The net debt on the right bottom reached BRL3.2 billion with an increase of 51% in the year-over-year comparison.

When compared to the previous quarter, it decreased by 70%. Both variations are explained by the new credits we have been dealt combined with the payment of dividends and of the 90% of the spectrum acquired in December 2010, which reduced the cash. The ratio of net debt over EBITDA reached 0.26 in this quarter.

Now I offer the floor again to Paulo Cesar for his final comments. Thanks to all of you.

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Thank you, Cristiane. As a recall, I have a list of goals for the Company that I wanted to describe for you. Number one, continue to grow our power voice and data business with focus on profitability. Number two, capture our new business and constantly await to create a sustainable revenue growth in the long-term. Number three, continue to strengthen our competitive advantage in quality and coverage. Number four, optimize operational synergies and become a fully integrated company. Our main goal is maintaining our position as the leader and best provider of telecom services in Brazil.

Now let me go through each item in more detail. Our macroeconomic evolution and better income distribution is offering large opportunities for Telefonica Brasil to increase revenues and profitability in all customer segments. We launched Vivo Sempre in July to observe the needs of the C, D/E classes. The promotions are driving an increase in the number of prepaid access, especially the most valued part of the segment, the ones able to recharge BRL25 per month. It aims not on a capture of new prepaid customers, but also that increase their royalty transforming the segment in the best class of future postpaid customer.

As we increased our postpaid clients, we continually upsell and crosssell services supported by our superior market mix, especially designed to acquire and retain most valuable customers in all the market. On the fixed front, we will keep our folks to send the quality. The speed, our DSL services offers best data speeds and we are all selling permanent offers given the RSP, the customer's possibilities to have discounts in mobile data plans.

We are also expanding our FWT solution to all main metropolitan areas outside Sao Paulo, to observe the potential market of more than 15 million homes. Further, the home and cable are already for position UBB for Sao Paulo customers. We already have more than 1 million homes passed in fiber as well as same amount in cable.

We will continue to require Fiber To The Home in order to keep our leadership in this segment. Profiting in the more important areas as well as extending our position. Beyond current business, we are investing in innovative and capturing new business opportunities. In the last year, we have seen a significant growth in new business avenues, as shown in the left side of this chart and we expect to continue this growth in 2012.

We will keep on exploiting new source of revenues in different areas. Our main focus, aligned with group's priorities and market opportunities, will be (inaudible) such as mobile applications like voice and SMS services, music and games. Financial services like [contactless] credit cards with Santander and Itau, prepaid card with MasterCard and the insurance products with that. The security is executed. The education of about 3 million English students in Vivo Kantoo, and have with new developments for 2012.

Our key assets are almost 90 million access base, strong customer insight and market understanding present through a wide sale and distribution network, established customer care process and channels and self-brand awareness.

In conclusion we leverage our ability to build and grow partnerships using our key assets as a way to differentiate ourselves. Going forward, we continue to strengthen the attributes that have allowed first to differentiate Vivo from our competitors.

Firstly, we have a clear sustainable quality differentiation for the other players, as seen in the left side of the chart, proven by one, better Anatel ratios in mobile customer care. Two, significant reduction in our data complaints for DSL customer, and three, superior CSI, Customer Satisfaction Index increase in postpaid customers.

Focus on quality will remain one of the our three priorities in 2012, especially considering the integration of our services under Vivo brand. Secondly, coverage and technology advantage will continue to drive our strategy. We will grow our 3G coverage even more. We will increase deployment of HSPA+ and look forward to implementing the LTE, which definitely allow us to sustain and foster our leadership in mobile broadband.

On the fixed business, we will increase deployment of fiber covering key areas of the premium market in Sao Paulo, consolidating our position as the largest FTTH player in LATAM.

On the last page, after two quarters, since the integration we have worked a lot. Our goal is to maximize the operational synergies and become a fully integrated company. We launched Vivo as a brand in the beginning of the second quarter, achieving the most important milestone for the operational integration. After that, we'll be more efficient in terms of market efforts. Our goal is to integrate culture unified management, we have already seen an increase in employee satisfaction, which is the best sign we are in the right direction. This is a long-term process and we will continue to bring together the best management practice and behaviors of the parts (inaudible).

The next goals would be to integrate IT, customer care, channels and customer intention to achieve better profitability and cash flow generation. To sum up, with the integration process on track, we continue to increase our revenue stream for voice and data and capture new business and growth opportunities to deliver even better cash flow. As I said this quarter, I am confident we have the right assets, the right execute -- and the right people to execute our plan and to return value to our investors every quarter.

Now, we are happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Michel Morin, Morgan Stanley.

MICHEL MORIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning everyone. If I can start off with a couple of quick numbers questions. First, on the cost side, G&A increased significantly sequentially by about BRL100 million. So, I was wondering if there was anything specific that drove that and if that's the new level that we should consider going forward? And perhaps it's related to the asset sale, I don't know, there was an asset sale in the quarter. I understand that may be related to towers and I am wondering what kind of impact that could have going forward on expenses, and I don't know if we saw that already in the fourth quarter results? Thank you. Hello?

OPERATOR: Pardon me, this is the operator, is it possible that your phone is on mute. Your line is open. Please remain on the line. Thank you for your patience. It appears that the speaker line has disconnected, just one moment. Pardon me, the speaker line has been reconnected. Mr. Morin, could you please repeat your question.

MICHEL MORIN: Yes, thanks. So, the first question is on G&A expense, there was a big sequential increase by about BRL100 million, I was hoping you might explain that? And there was also an asset sale, which produced a gain, and I am wondering if there was also any impact of that on the cost side, I understand you sold some towers, I don't know if we saw an increase in cost already or is that something that we should anticipate beginning only in the first quarter of 2012? Thank you.

OPERATOR: Hello, your line is connected. We can hear you. Just a minute I'll transfer the call to do speaker lines just a minute. Thank you. Pardon me, the speaker line has been reconnected.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, Michel. Can you hear Michel?

MICHEL MORIN: Yes. I can hear you now. Thank you.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Oh sorry, I got your question, but I think that you do not hear answer, did you?

MICHEL MORIN: No, we did not hear anything.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay. About G&A, there was nothing regarding towers in these numbers. Actually we had some adjustment of some contracts and some specific items in the period, nothing to worry about the future. So, the level may reduce a little bit more. Okay.

MICHEL MORIN: Okay. Sorry, so there is nothing unusual in the G&A, it's just some lumpiness I guess from quarter-to-quarter?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, correct.

MICHEL MORIN: Okay, alright. And then on the towers, is it too small to really make us worry about or are we going to see it somewhere in the P&L, an increase going forward?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes. Okay, about towers, we had the amounts that we disclosed in the press release. We had a gain of BRL381 million in the quarter; compared to last year there was BRL233 million. And actually, we are looking for opportunities to use our assets the best way we can. So, if we identify industries, so that we still have some non-strategic towers, maybe we analyze the sale of these towers, that's not under commitment and for now it's that what we did for the fourth quarter of 2011.

MICHEL MORIN: Right. But my question was on the cost side. Presumably, you'll have increased rental costs going forward. So, I don't know if we saw some of that already flow through in the fourth quarter or if it's something we should anticipate beginning in Q1 and if so how significant is this and where will it show up?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay, in fourth quarter was very small, the amount of rent of towers, but of course, we're going to have an expansion this year from now on from the towers that we sold, but nothing relevant in the first quarter if that's one of your questions.

MICHEL MORIN: Okay. And going forward is it possible to give us a sense of how significant that is?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: We can't comment on that on the first quarter of 2012, okay, because we were going to have already a full quarter with these rental expenses. So, we prefer to comment on that after that, Michael.

MICHEL MORIN: Okay, alright. Thank you very much.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Welcome.

OPERATOR: Andrew Campbell, Credit Suisse.

ANDREW CAMPBELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good afternoon. I noticed there were some significant changes in some of the balance sheet accounts; in particular, goodwill, deferred taxes, the long-term provisioning. And I was wondering if you could give us a little color on what was incorporated, what changed during the quarter? And the question is whether or not that would have any impact perhaps on the level of goodwill that you can amortize going forward, and if that would have any impact on the level of non-operating synergies that you anticipate?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay. In the balance and -- hi, Andrew -- in the balance, what we had as you know we started to amortize the goodwill since April last year of the acquisition of Participacoes volumes, but from April to September, this goodwill is amortized and result any fiscal benefit and we started to amortize as October after the restructuring process and we started to get some fiscal benefit from that. So, what changes from the first quarter, the third quarter that you saw to the fourth quarter is that we started to amortize it and get the benefit as of October 2011 until December.

And then the numbers in the balance sheets actually are the same, the number of goodwill are the same that we disclosed since the operation was done, but then we changed a little bit the net amount, because we started the amortization as of April last year.

ANDREW CAMPBELL: Okay. And is the previous non-operating synergy guidance still valid or do you believe it could be a larger number than what we had received previously?

OPERATOR: Hello, your line is connected.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, Andrew.

ANDREW CAMPBELL: Yes, I'm here.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, I don't know what you heard actually.

ANDREW CAMPBELL: I heard actually your answer regarding the explanation for why the accounts changed and that you started recognizing the tax benefit starting in October, but my follow--up was just whether or not this has any impact on the non-operating synergy guidance that you guys have provided in the past?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: No, no changes.

ANDREW CAMPBELL: Okay, thank you.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Welcome.

OPERATOR: Vera Rossi, Barclays Capital.

VERA ROSSI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Could you talk about the reasons behind the acceleration in your fixed line losses and what do you expect for 2012 after you launch the Vivo brand on your fixed line product? Thank you.

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Thank you, Vera for the question. Both fixed line, we are facing the problem that all incumbent operators in the world are facing, because in this moment in Brazil, a very competitive market in mobile and the lines in fixed are suffering this competition, and but we're bundle more products with our fixed line customers in order to increase loyalty. In this sense, we have 30% of our fixed line clients with fixed broadband, and we are in the best position I think so when you compare with the other operators, incumbent operators in Latin America. We are focused now to launch our FWT solution outside of Sao Paulo that we are confident that we have increased the number of fixed line in this region.

VERA ROSSI: Okay. And but your customers, are they disconnecting because they don't want wireline services anymore or they are going to your competition?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: No, in relative, we have more appeal in mobile, now we have more offers in mobile in this moment and the people are choosing the T-Mobile fixed lines, but we are working very much to bundle products with the fixed line and we are preparing the launch of the brands, the new brands, Vivo brand in Sao Paulo in April. And I think it's most -- we have the possibility to have some more appeal for the fixed line when the bundle products like we are doing now, but what we would think is more.

VERA ROSSI: Okay. At this point, when you launched the Vivo brand, do you expect to have, a slowdown in the line losses and a potential increase in the growth for broadband and also the pay TV product?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Oh, yes, but only not for this, because we are working to have the possibilities to join more products, when you considering that we have said to have IT systems to prepare to launch bundles, no. And we are looking for -- all the parts of the business to do this and the brand is one of these parties.

VERA ROSSI: Okay, will the IT systems be ready by May?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: We are working for this, we're working.

VERA ROSSI: Okay.

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Okay?

VERA ROSSI: Okay, Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ric Prentiss, Raymond James.

RIC PRENTISS, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thank you. Two questions if I could, first on mobile termination rates. What is your expectations about what the cost will be and what the impact will be? And the second question is on smartphones, can you tell us what your penetration of smartphones is currently and what the costs are looking like?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay, the first one (inaudible) was already announced last year, the reduction following our sales, is a blend of 14% reduction that impacts now on (inaudible) net terms less than 2%.

RIC PRENTISS: Okay.

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: The question about the smartphone is we were in the best position in the market, because we're so confident to have the best coverage in 3G. We are now implementing -- pushing our Vivo smartphone limited plans, we're going very well with these plans. And we have some research in Brazil about this and we have a very good position in the site of the market.

We think in Brazil we have a low penetration in the smartphone while pushing a lot, smartphones in the category that you call as much, well, I think its possible to put a data package together, no. And we, in the sense we are, we think we are good in this second half.

RIC PRENTISS: Is it safe to say smartphone penetration is less than 5%?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Less than, the total market less than 10%.

RIC PRENTISS: Less than 10%. And you have cost cutting down to the BRL100 to U level, yet that seems to be an inflection point where sales might take off quite significantly?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Yes, the price is reducing and we are negotiating to have better price, we have two category; the smartphone that took on Brazil, the smartphone, the operating system, and the (inaudible) because we call it smartphone, because its possible to put a data package together, no, and we are focusing in both segments.

RIC PRENTISS: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Valder Nogueira, Santander.

VALDER NOGUEIRA, ANALYST, SANTANDER: Good morning guys or good afternoon guys. One question, you successfully launched alternative calling plans for the postpaid clients, for the contract clients. They seem to be doing a good job you have entered into a piece of the market that was eaten up by the other competitors. And in this sense, my question is how much do you want to do in that segment of the markets as to avoid potentializing cannibalization of your already existing good clients?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Valder, the question is very good question, because in reality, we are now -- our unlimited plans we have more compromised on these plans, when you compare the plan that we have before, because we increased the plans, the compromise, BRL20 in each plan for to have the capacity to use this plan unlimited. If you compare -- if the previous plan that we have in postpaid we have now more portability with this plans.

VALDER NOGUEIRA: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Rizwan Ali, Deutsche Bank.

RIZWAN ALI, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, good morning. My question is regarding your capital expenditures. Can you give us an idea of what your CapEx looks like for this year and roughly where it would be spent?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Hi Rizwan. Actually, the CapEx for this year is quite similar to what we had in 2011.

RIZWAN ALI: Okay. And follow-up question is, regards to your push-to-talk product, it did pretty well in the third quarter. Can you give us some numbers as to how well it did in the fourth quarter?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: We are pushing this service in the corporate market. We are now -- obviously, you have the competition for the consumer because you have unlimited plans in postpaid, but its going very well. We still (inaudible) this product, and we are very good position to market because we are now prepare of the launch of the international roam for this service and for the corporate its doing very well.

RIZWAN ALI: Can you give us any numbers as to how many subscribers are on --

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: No numbers, no numbers. For us, that's on medium, it's not number.

RIZWAN ALI: One last thing, in terms of leveraging, you have, in a way to leverage is their a reason to increase leverage in certain forms and potentially increase dividends or potentially even do share buybacks?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Actually, we always generalize opportunities to maximize our capital structure, so it's no, no specific intention to increase the leverage, if its necessary we can do that, but we have to have some fixed plan for that and get the best we can do with the structure.

OPERATOR: James Ratzer, New Street Research.

JAMES RATZER, ANALYST, NEW STREET RESEARCH: Yes, good morning. Thanks very much. I had two questions please. First one regarding your integration costs, you mentioned on the final slide that's going to be around BRL400 million. Could you let us know how much that has been spent to-date please and whether that's been booked in OpEx or CapEx.

And the second question was regarding your mobile data revenue growth, where may -- has been quite a mixed change within that. Internet revenue growth has been slowing steadily over the years, where I just thought that might have seen some acceleration with smartphone growth, but other data revenues have been accelerating sharply. So, I was wondering if you could just let us know what's going on within those two revenue lines. Thank you.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay. About the integration cost, the amount did not change, but the main cost going to be sales actually, starting 2012. So we prefer not to make any comments on the numbers of 2011, which were very small, but we are not changing the numbers that we disclosed before, and maybe 2011 the first quarter -- when they occur, we can make more comments -- specific comments, okay.

JAMES RATZER: But the impact in 2011, that was very low?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, very low, very low.

JAMES RATZER: And then on the data revenue mix, please?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay. The growth in Internet revenues have started to slow because our base is very big and so we have a very big coverage in Internet municipalities comparing to the competitors. And we are launching and developing all the services as well as data to increase, that we launch different financial services and push-to-talk and other different interactive downloads to get some more revenues despite the MMS and SMS and Internet. So, it's natural that the growth that we fell relates to Internet. It can be slower right now, but then we are trying to launch different initiatives to have much more growth in other data also.

JAMES RATZER: And then the reason why other revenues have been growing so sharply and what specific products then in that revenue line please, that are boosting growth?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: We have some P2A some applications that we use when you making downloads and they had a revenue share to some partners. We have push-to-talk. We have some financials and insurance services. We have a lot of items, and Paulo mentioned some of the services in the -- one of his slides, when he was talking about his strategy, if you can get back to the slide later to just take a look and see some of the differences we are doing that can benefit this group of data revenues.

JAMES RATZER: So, when you say in your edges in the cost line, I think it goes back to the one of the first questions you've seen growth of cost to third parties. Does -- is that tied in with this growth we're seeing on data revenue that this is booking revenues growth that they have a low net margin?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: No, there is nothing to do with that. I took the first question about G&A. actually this G&A increase was related to some adjustments we made in some contracts in this fiscal item. The revenue share I was talking about in data is in the group of cost of sales that are directly related to revenues. So, they have nothing to do with G&A and have to do with cost of services.

JAMES RATZER: Okay. Thanks very much.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Welcome.

OPERATOR: Giovanni Montalti, Cheuvreux.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI, ANALYST, CHEUVREUX: Good afternoon. Just a couple of details on the numbers, I was noticing your press release, you are going to have a capital gain on the disposal and you were mentioning also the related figures for 2010 on the -- again, capital gain that you were getting. Could you please specify what amount of capital gains was booked in Q4 2010, because in the press release, you are providing just the full amount for full-year 2010 for capital gains? Thank you.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay. We had in this quarter, I'm going to give specific numbers as you asked. In this quarter we have BRL381 million in this fourth quarter rather to non-strategic assets of the power that we made. In the second quarter of this year 2011, we had BRL95 million, and in the fourth quarter of 2010 we had BRL233 million.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: BRL233 million?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: BRL233 million, yes.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: So, could you also tell us what the number of sites that you are selling or a share, I mean, compared to your total tower portfolio that you are now disposing?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Now we've decided not to make any comments on that item.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: Okay. So, just following up on the question of the pervious analyst, I didn't understand honestly if with respect the increase on rental fees for towers to be material going forward or not?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: No, we don't expect be material. What I said is that we prefer to disclose the numbers after the first quarter is done, because in 2011, the amount was very small, since the main assets we sold in the fourth quarter of 2011. So, it did not have any material expenses in 2011. So, in the first quarter of 2012, maybe we can make some (inaudible) about it.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: Actually just the last one if I can, the final slide on the --

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: I just can make an -- a complement, that all the new leases that we had with the towers are below market prices. So, just for reference for you, if you want to know before the first quarter.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: Okay. So, they were very convenient, let's say, conditions for you?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, yes.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: On the last slide, you were saying that you have no change in the synergies, but this means that the numbers that we are seeing now in the slide still include the portion of the synergies that I assume you have already achieved in 2011, is that correct?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Can you repeat please?

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: You were mentioning before that in the last slide, the one related to the synergies ---

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: That one has no change.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: Yes, and so.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Asking specifically about non-operating fiscal --- non-operating synergies and I said there was no changes, yes.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: Okay. But the numbers that we see there in slide 22, those ones are still including the portion of synergies that you have already achieved in 2011, I imagine?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, includes. Yes.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: And can you tell us, what is this portion of synergies that you have already achieved?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: No. They're not disclosed in detail.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Marcelo Santos, JPMorgan.

MARCELO SANTOS, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: The first question, I have is about competition, I think Cristiane mentioned during the -- her prepared remarks that competition is increasing. I'd like just to get a little bit more color on that. And the second question would be how much did you have on tax savings related to goodwill amortization in the fourth quarter?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Marcella, I think there was a competition. We have the same situation in the last two years, we had very tough competition, but we are all focused in the same, Vivo has the best quality of sales we're able to address the best offering in the market. We are now all proposed to compete with the quality differentiation and we had somewhat of points that we prefer to focus. I think the market is not changing; we are so prepared to have this competition; we have different ways we like, we put more coverage -- focus and coverage in 3G and in the quality that is our differentiation for the market.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay, about. Okay, do you have any -- sorry, do you have any follow-up on that to Paulo?

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: No, no, thank you.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Okay. About tax, you can see some more details in the footnote in the financial statements that we are disclosing there, that despite the allocation of the goodwill made to brands and clients, all the other goodwill that's disclosed right in the footnote are subject to fiscal benefit, in amortizations around between -- around 10 years, but you can change on a going forward because I have to make some analysis and profitability of going forward. So this is not steady but for now it's around 10 years.

GIOVANNI MONTALTI: Okay. Thank you.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: You are welcome.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Dominic St George, Nevsky.

DOMINIC ST GEORGE, ANALYST, NEVSKY: Yes, hi. I have got a question on the iPhone actually, I had conference earlier this week, Tim Cook basically said after China, Apple are looking to target Brazil specifically as a key market for them to focus on. So, I was just wondering if I could get your views on that given, as you have already said, in a great position to take up the share on the smartphone, and then also if you are able to give an update on the plant that's being built in Brazil or any views on it, please?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Mr. Dominic, we agree totally with Mr. Tim Cook, because you are focusing in smartphone in Brazil. We have the best coverage. We have the best quality service and our focus is to have the best offer for this segment. We comment before we have -- because Brazil is the marketing that we have a low penetration in smartphone. Our focus in smartphone is much like again, two options for the market and it's very important not to sell only the smartphone but to have a data package associated, and we are focused with this, I think you -- Brazil probably will be the market that is possible to grow more in the next few months.

DOMINIC ST GEORGE: Sorry, are you saying in the next few months, we'll start seeing acceleration in iPhone sales and then also just as a follow up on the actual plant is being built in Brazil?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Depend on the price, I think we still have a good negotiation the prices will drop in Brazil because it's very important for the price in this market. We have the possibility to have (inaudible) the Brazil factory, and if it's possible to have the better price, I think the core view be accelerated for this reason.

DOMINIC ST GEORGE: Sorry, just to clarify, so the Brazilian factory, is that already up and running and producing handsets?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: A small part of the product for Apple is from Brazil. We have expectation to have more products from Brazil in the price drop. We have a high price mix to compare Brazil with other markets but -- all the criteria -- smartphones we have the same situation, and we are striking to reduce the pricing in this year.

DOMINIC ST GEORGE: Okay, perfect. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Will Milner, Aurette Research.

WILL MILNER, ANALYST, AURETTE RESEARCH: Thanks. I just got one question really. Over the course of the year, you've obviously changed tariffs and included long distance in prepaid offer, and I think as a BRL20 bolt-on on the elements of the postpaid offers, I just wonder if you can talk about the level of customer acceptance and the take up rate of the long distance offers and the impact that's had on traffic and usage? Thanks.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, we felt very good acceptance from the prepaid clients regarding the long distance offer that we had, BRL0.05. We tried to really increase it. We felt we had a demand very strong and there was maybe development that we had in the past was not big because the prices are very high, and now we made a very strong penetration and we are seeing these results, now recharge as far as speeding of the time and the prepaid clients as we saw in the numbers of general, in the prepaid segment in Vivo. So the acceptance was very good, yes, in the clients of prepaid. We had very strong growth in traffic and the numbers are quite good.

WILL MILNER: And just if I can quickly follow up on the postpaid side, I mean of the growth sides on the limits, how many are actually taking the long distance bolt-on which I think is BRL20, if I am not mistaken, is that a number you have to hand?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Yes, in the postpaid we also feel there is some growth, in the plan also mixed with long distance, in both segments prepaid and postpaid.

WILL MILNER: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Luis Azevedo, Bradesco.

LUIS AZEVEDO, ANALYST, BRADESCO: Good morning. My question is regarding the broadband -- fixed broadband services, I read in the press release that you have already 1 million homes passed to fiber-to-the-home. But the number of subscribers is around 50,000. I'd like to know how do you expect this to get to feel and also if you have any numbers of expectations for growth in broadband -- fixed broadband services for fiber and SPD as well?

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Okay, thank you, Luis Azevedo. Yes, we believe that the future of fixed broadband is also broadband; it's our focus now to accelerate the product that to have in Sao Paulo. We have now 1 million homes passed, about 6,000 kilometers in fiber, 50% of this network was constructed in the last year, in part of the last year. And we have now 50,000 clients by the end of the year. But now we're -- we have not in the end of January, almost 60,000.

We're increasing a lot in this service. I think it's possible to increase more if we have the IPTV services probably in the second semester of this year. As we -- some of this, our cable system that we have in TVA and with some of that we have 1.7 million homes passed, possibility to have ultra broadband in Sao Paulo. We have now more implementation using our network in Sao Paulo with -- we're putting more boot service nodes to create our network and to achieve more capacity and possibility to have better services for the broadband services in Sao Paulo.

Then for the complimentary marketing in -- out of Sao Paulo, our focus is to have the fixed line (inaudible) Vivo Box (inaudible) solution. Regarding the Sao Paulo situation in the broadband, we have a very competitive marketing. We are focusing mobile too and -- but we think with the fixed broadband in Sao Paulo is driven by the ultra broadband and we are in the best position in the market and we have focus in this segment.

LUIS AZEVEDO: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mathieu Robilliard, BNP Paribas.

MATHIEU ROBILLIARD, ANALYST, BNP PARIBAS: Yes, good morning, good afternoon, a question around fiber actually. Could you give us a sense of what is the CapEx of per home passed so far, and also could you give us a sense of what the incremental CapEx of connection costs are when you transform the home passed into an actual subscriber? Thank you.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Now, we cannot disclose this information for strategic reasons.

MATHIEU ROBILLIARD: Okay. If I just follow-up on that, presumably you have set-top box related costs, when you transform one home passed to an actual customer. How do you treat that; is that an OpEx or a CapEx?

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: CapEx.

MATHIEU ROBILLIARD: Thank you.

CRISTIANE BARRETTO: Welcome.

OPERATOR: Mauricio Fernandes, Merrill Lynch.

MAURICIO FERNANDES, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good afternoon everyone. Following on on the point of Louis question about fiber and the competition in fixed line, you mentioned that, if I'm not mistaken, there is 6,000 kilometers of fiber, a good chunk of it, if I'm not mistaken, about 50% of it was built in the last year.

Can you share with us whether the plan is to continue to grow to expand the fiber network by the same percentage or the same number of kilometers? And how do you see that, I mean -- where is that being, is it mostly in the metropolitan Sao Paulo area, or are you talking about the whole state. I would guess that most of it is in the metropolitan area given the additional [competition printing] fiber, but also given that GVT is not coming to the Sao Paulo city, but still coming to the Sao Paulo metropolitan area, you would be deploying that -- most of it in the Sao Paulo metropolitan area. Thank you.

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: Thank you, Mauricio. What can I say, in fact we have fiber in 15 cities in Sao Paulo. Our focus is to maintain our position to accelerate this project. We have now 1,000 home passed and we think it's possible to grow in this year. But we don't want to disclose this number -- the information, and the solution that we have now, we can agree the IPTV solution, that we can do it in the standards of best solution that is possible to have in this market. We are looking for the state-of-the-art solution and we've just -- solution is possible to have in the second semester of this year. It's supposed to increase more fast in this situation that we are facing now. But we have some competition in the market, but we are thinking we are in the best position.

MAURICIO FERNANDES: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes the question and answer session. At this time, I'd like to turn the floor back to Mr. Teixeira for any closing remarks.

PAULO CESAR PEREIRA TEIXEIRA: I would like to thank you for attending this conference, and we are pleased with the numbers we just presented to you for 2011. Our strategies for the big successful and financial results is already showing it. Most important, we see an even brighter future for us ahead. The mobile numbers of January have been delivered yesterday by Anatel, and this show that an increase in our blended market share to reach 29.7%. We are the perfect choice for 45% of the new additions to the market.

This performances show we are in the right direction. We will try to differentiate in the quarter for our competitors during the 2012 to generate even more value to our shareholders. I look forward to see you again in the presentation of Telefonica Brasil in first quarter '12 results. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's Telefonica Brasil 4Q '11 results conference call. You may disconnect your lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
tlesp : Telefonica Brasil SA | applc : Apple Inc | comtn : Telefonica SA
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i7902 : Telecommunications | i79021 : Wired Telecommunications Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
soap : Sao Paulo | usa : United States | braz : Brazil | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120302e82g0015p
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Rovi Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,542 words
   PD
16 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to Rovi's fourth quarter earnings release conference call. During today's presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be open for questions.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Today's conference is being recorded, February 16, 2012. I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Keller, Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations.

CHRIS KELLER, VP OF FINANCE, IR, ROVI CORP: Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to Rovi Corporation's fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. I'm Chris Keller, and I'm joined today by Tom Carson, our President and CEO; and James Budge, our CFO. Before we discuss our results, which were released earlier today, I would like to start with some housekeeping items. First, I would like to remind you that all statements made during our conference call that are not statements of historical fact, including but not limited to statements regarding the Company's forecasts of future revenues and earnings, the integration of the Sonic acquisition, as well as business strategies and product plans constitute forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could vary materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are described in our Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2011 and other filings with the SEC that are filed from time to time.

Second, our results, released earlier today, as well as our discussion on this call include non-GAAP adjusted pro forma information which excludes, as applicable, non-cash items and items that impact comparability. Examples of such items include amortization, equity based compensation, and discrete tax items and the tax effect of all non-GAAP adjustments. Depreciation expense, while a non-cash item, is included in adjusted pro forma operating results as a proxy for capital expenditures to demonstrate recurring cash based earnings. Adjusted pro forma combined information assumes the Sonic Solutions acquisition and the Roxio consumer software disposition were both effective on January 1, 2010. Adjusted pro forma reconciliations for historical results including Sonic Solutions and excluding the Roxio consumer software business are in our press release.

We have presented and are discussing adjusted pro forma combined company information because this is how we have and will evaluate our business. We believe that this presentation may be meaningful to our investors in analyzing the Company's results of operation. This presentation is not intended to be a substitute for our financial results presented in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States, and investors and potential investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of adjusted pro forma financial measures included in our earnings press release. And as the final piece of housekeeping, the webcast of this conference call will be available on our Investor Relations web page until our next quarterly earnings call. I would now like to turn the call over to Tom.

TOM CARSON, EVP OF GLOBAL SALES AND SERVICES, ROVI CORP: Thank you, Chris. Thanks, everyone for joining us today for our quarterly conference call. As you may have seen in today's earnings press release, we grew our 2011 adjusted pro forma revenue over 12% to $716 million. After taking into account the recent sale of the Roxio Software business and its resulting reclassification to Discontinued Operations, these revenues are at the high end of the updated estimates we provided on January 12.

Similar to previous quarters, our business continues to grow due to new license agreements, increases in device shipments and incorporate our products [where] our license under our patents, the continued conversion of analog TV subscribers to digital, and advertising growth. When combined with operating efficiencies, this resulted in a 30% year-over-year increase in adjusted pro forma EPS to $2.40. This too, after taking into account the reclassification of the Roxio Software business to Discontinued Operations, was at the high end of our recently updated 2011 guidance. I am pleased with our financial results for the year, as well as the significant progress we made in 2011 securing customer wins for our new solutions across our verticals. I'll discuss our progress in more detail shortly, but first, James will review some of the financial metrics.

JAMES BUDGE, CFO, ROVI CORP: Thank you, Tom. As Tom mentioned, we posted excellent double digit percentage increases in revenue and earnings in 2011, which were consistent with the increases we anticipated and provided at our Investor Day in January just over a month ago. Specific to Q4, we grew adjusted pro forma revenue to $177.2 million. Revenue in our Service Provider vertical, which is primarily comprised of guide products and patents licensed to cable, satellite and telecom companies, grew 11% year-over-year to $78.1 million in the fourth quarter. This growth was driven by the continued conversion of analog subscribers to digital, the addition of new international licensees, and growth in our Service Provider product revenues.

It's worth noting that our Service Provider product revenues rose 32% versus the same quarter last year, marking the sixth consecutive quarter of 20% plus growth -- product growth year-on-year. The strength in Service Provider products was achieved by improved pricing on contract renewals, new applications, and advertising. Subscribers worldwide receiving a licensed or Rovi-provided set-top box-based guide rose to 137 million at the end of Q4 2011, up from 128 million in Q4 2010. Excluding prepaid licensees, primarily Comcast and Dish, total Rovi license subscribers are now approximately 95 million versus 88 million in the year-ago period. Subscribers receiving a Rovi-provided set-top box-based guide rose 14% from a year ago to over 18 million at the end of 2011.

Adjusted pro forma revenue in our CE vertical, which includes guidance, products and patents license to device manufacturers, DivX and ACP for hardware, was $80.4 million in Q4 2011, up 12% from $71.8 million in Q4 2010, as we continue to benefit from growth in shipments of IPG-enabled devices as well as strong DivX growth. However, consistent with the trend from prior quarters, growth was partially offset by declines in our analog product lines such as ACP. With the disposition of the Roxio consumer software business, our other vertical now primarily includes the Rovi Entertainment Store data licensing and entertainment technology offering. Adjusted pro forma revenue for our Other vertical was $18.7 million in Q4 2011, down 23% from $24.3 million in the comparable period last year. The drop off is attributable to the decline in demand for our analog ACP for entertainment technology, which more than offset growth in our Rovi Entertainment Store and data licensing offering. While we continue to have high expectations and believe the end markets are significant for both the Rovi Entertainment Store and data licensing, we anticipate the growth from these businesses will be largely offset by the continued decline in our analog ACP for entertainment offerings during fiscal 2012.

Turning to adjusted pro forma profit measures. Cost of goods sold totaled $27.5 million or 16% of revenue. SG&A totaled $33.3 million or 19% of revenue, and R&D totaled $35 million or 20% of revenue. Our high operating and earnings margins were due primarily to operating efficiencies including synergies from the Sonic Solutions transaction, which we now -- which have now risen to provide annual savings of over $50 million, versus our initial expectations of around $30 million. SG&A expenses declined 25% year-over-year as we continued to realize synergies in SG&A and other operating costs.

Turning to our balance sheet. The principal amount of debt at quarter-end was $1 billion. We continue to opportunistically retire debt and repurchase our stock. During the quarter, we paid $75.2 million to retire $75.7 million in par value of our 2040 convertible notes. In addition, we purchased 835,000 shares of Common Stock, bringing the total shares repurchased to 6.8 million for 2011. We currently have $375 million and $210.1 million remaining on our stock and debt repurchase authorizations, respectively. Cash and investment balances at the end of the year were $486 million.

In regards to our full year 2012 guidance, we still see things as we described last month at our Investor Day. After taking into account the sale of the Roxio consumer business, we are maintaining our adjusted pro forma revenue estimates of between $755 million and $785 million for 2012 and continue to expect 2012 adjusted pro forma EPS of between $2.35 and $2.65.

Finally, a reminder on our seasonal revenue trends. As we mentioned in our Investor Day, just as in years past, we expect stronger revenues in the second half with approximately 53% to 54% of our revenues expected in the second half. That said, I would also like to highlight that Q1 2011 benefited from significant shipments of analog product relative to the remainder of the year. Due to the significant declines in analog revenues, we would anticipate more of the first half 2012 revenues would come in Q2 versus Q1, and now I'd like to turn the call back over to Tom. Tom?

TOM CARSON: Thank you, James. At this point, I'll review some recent business highlights, including rearrange some key points we discussed at our Investor Day. In CE, we performed very well despite all the market headwinds and our own declining analog product. Patent and digital products continued to benefit from the digital TV upgrade cycle. Device sales were fueled by price reductions and consumer desire for increased functionality, most notably connectivity, all contributed to our CE growth. Our strategy to take advantage of this connected trend over the long term is as, we had stated in the past, for our TotalGuide Solutions and Rovi cloud services, which include our advertising, metadata and search and recommendation services, as well as our DivX Plus Streaming and Rovi Entertainment Store offerings. These offerings will address the consumer's desire to search, discover, acquire, and play back content including with advanced streaming features from both broadcast and On Demand sources.

In terms of wins, we are pleased to have signed a multi-year license agreement with Toshiba for Rovi Guidance Solutions in Japan. Toshiba is the number two DTV brand in Japan, and their addition brings our DTV market coverage in Japan to almost 100%. This agreement is also an important milestone as Toshiba joined Panasonic, Sharp, Sony and Samsung as licensors of our guidance products and technologies in all of our major territories. Additionally, we are pleased to have recently announced that we expanded our advertising relationship with Samsung to include inventory on the main screen of their connected digital television sets.

During the recent Consumer Electronics Show, we showcased our TotalGuide Solution for CE, and demonstrated how our customers can utilize its foundational capabilities to differentiate their products in the marketplace. To this end, we are told by Toshiba and Panasonic that they are on track to begin shipping products powered by our TotalGuide offering later this year.

One of the more exciting consumer solutions from Rovi at the CES show was Rovi Digital Copy, the legalized DVD copy solution we announced in conjunction with Samsung and Warner Brothers' Flixster application. This solution enables a customer to put a legally purchased DVD into a connected Samsung BluRay player and, after we authenticate its eligibility, receive an offer to deposit a legal digital copy of the applicable film or television content in a Rovi-powered digital locker in the cloud. This solution utilizes several Rovi capabilities including our media recognition technology, our metadata, and Rovi Entertainment Store platform. We now have multiple studios involved and expect to expand distribution with additional CE manufacturers. Rovi Digital Copy potentially opens up a dual revenue stream for us. We'll be paid by CE manufacturers on a per device model for our Rovi Digital Copy Solution, and we have the opportunity for a transactional revenue stream when the Rovi Entertainment Store powers the digital locker service the consumer selects.

On the DivX front, demand continues to be strong. Adjusted pro forma revenue related to our DivX offering grew 52%. Overall shipments of hardware devices, licensed for our DivX technology grew about 40% year-over-year, and there are now over 600 million devices enabled by our DivX technology, further demonstrating the continuing demand for our DivX offering. Last quarter, we announced DivX Plus Streaming, a secure adaptive streaming solution which detects a user's bandwidth and CPU capacity in realtime and adjusts the quality of the video stream accordingly. Unlike other streaming technologies on the market today, DivX Plus Streaming offers high quality video as well as enhanced user experience that consumers have come to expect from their physical medium. This is a significant improvement on the all too common consumer streaming video experience of long wait for a digitally delivered movie to start, less than perfect HD quality, and clumsy fast-forward and rewind.

DivX Plus Streaming solves these problems with its support of 1080p HD, fast video start, trick play features like smooth fast-forward and rewind, and the ability to support subtitles and multiple audio tracks. It also provides content providers such as the Hollywood Studios the opportunity to offer advanced features such as director's commentary that could capture a premium price. DivX Plus Streaming has now been proved by almost every major Hollywood studio, and we anticipate having it implemented in our Rovi Entertainment Store by mid year with device rollouts following thereafter. This technology, when implemented in conjunction with our Rovi Entertainment Store, will also provide the ability to resume playback across devices, enabling consumers to pause a movie in the living room and finish watching it at their local coffee shop on a tablet or laptop. We believe these advanced features, when demonstrated in the Rovi Entertainment Store, will drive even greater interest in this technology. DivX Plus Streaming will be marketed as an enhanced profile of our DivX certification licensing program. As such, we expect to generate incremental per device fees from existing licensees in the [4AB] market. We also look to obtain additional revenue by offering the streaming solution in underpenetrated market segments such as mobile and additional geographic markets.

Our Service Provider vertical fundamentals remain positive. While basic video cable subscriber growth is stagnant in North America, the conversion of analog to digital subscribers continues to fuel a need for additional set-top box-based guides. Internationally, we benefited from both lower relative digital penetration and our growing penetration through new licensees. Adjusted pro forma revenues also benefit from improved pricing when we renew agreements. Additionally, we benefited from the up sell of incremental applications to our customers, including remote DVR, multi-room DVR, switch digital video support, EBIF User Agent as well as from the professional services fees associated with implementing new functionality. These new features and capabilities allowed us to renew 23 MSO agreements in Q4 with a resulting 20% plus average rate increase based upon the value we've added to our offerings.

While [iconic] passport deployments drive growth today, these solutions can also provide the platforms upon which to transition customers to our TotalGuide Solution for Service Providers. At our Investor Day at CES, I discussed two of our early accounts for TotalGuide XD and TotalGuide for set-top boxes, Armstrong Communication, and BendBroadband. I would like to briefly update everyone on our progress with these two accounts. Armstrong finalized field trials of TotalGuide XD and successfully deployed remote record to all sites. Armstrong is now testing our latest TotalGuide functionality, Remote Tune, which will ultimately add the capability for subscribers to control not only their DVR, but also tune channels from their Smartphone or tablet in lieu of a remote. Bend successfully installed and trialed our EBIF User Agent as well as our remote DVR application. Bend is now testing our integrated search feature upgrade, which is at the heart of the TotalGuide for set-top box offering.

For the first time, without a truck rollout of a new set-top box, an MSO can provide its subscribers a visually rich integrated search experience displaying an MSO's entire VOD catalog enhanced with rich media such as images and other enhancements. We expect both of these operators to deploy TotalGuide no later than early in the second half of 2012. These are small operators so I'd reiterate the point we made at our Investor Day, which is that while we expect to see several customer success stories in 2012, it is still early days, and we do not expect meaningful TotalGuide related revenue until 2013. Their smaller size notwithstanding, both Bend and Armstrong are widely respected within the industry for being on the leading edge of technology trends, and we know many MSOs who are simply awaiting the successful and timely implementation of TotalGuide with these two operators before making a decision about their own rollout. In this regard, I would like to note that Mediacom recently renewed its agreement with us and, as part of that renewal, agreed to deploy our TotalGuide for set-top box solution. Mediacom will join the growing list of Service Providers including Cogeco, Suddenlink, Buckeye, and Blue Ridge Communications in trials and testing the underlying enablers that include the EBIF User Agent and remote DVR application this year. We anticipate trials and testing will continue throughout 2012 and TotalGuide revenues from these operators will begin in 2013.

It is also important to bear in mind that while operators are keen to migrate to the next generation guides, there are still many low-end set-top boxes which will likely remain deployed with Rovi's legacy guide for years to come. While our TotalGuide Solution will target some of these low end devices, others won't be able to handle the advanced capabilities. To avoid the untenable cost to replace all of these boxes with new hardware in a short to mid term, we anticipate Service Providers opting for a low-cost solution. We expect this will typically mean investing to add incremental functionality through apps such as the ones I mentioned earlier, namely remote DVR recording, multi-room DVR, switched digital video support, our EBIF User Agent and others.

When added on top of our legacy guides, Service Providers gain additional mileage out of their existing investment in these low-end boxes. This has the potential to result in a widespread deployment of multiple incremental apps across a vast majority of these older set-top boxes, which equates to a steady incremental revenue source during the transition period to next generation guides such as TotalGuide. I am confident that as we demonstrate success with our early adopting operators and through our various field trials, MSOs will increasingly view our solution as a long term answer to retain customers, grow revenues, control branding, and minimize cost and disruption while achieving a rapid rollout. I am pleased with the progress we've made with Service Providers. The addition of Mediacom means three of the 10 largest MSOs in North America are engaged with TotalGuide, and I expect additional wins with sizeable customers for our next generation guide platforms in the near future.

Moving on to our data business. We renewed several agreements in Q4, including with both Netflix and LOVEFiLM, to supply data for use with online and over the top video products as well as with a number of our traditional online retail partners such as FYE and HMV Canada. We continue to make in roads into the world of connective products with a number of deals with app providers around both music and video services and look forward to building on this success with our search and recommendation technology, which received a lot of interest at CES. We expanded our relationships within the key broadcast and streaming radio segment and signed a new deal with Triton Digital to power a rich web discovery experience around the streaming radio stations they power online and on mobile devices for such companies as Cox, CBS, and AOL. We recognize the continuing challenge physical media companies face and are very pleased with the opportunity we can provide them through our rich media data set to bridge their transition to the digital space.

Turning to the Rovi Entertainment Store. I am pleased with the continued positive developments on this front and the exciting opportunity ahead. As I mentioned in discussion our CE vertical, we are partnering with Warner Brothers and Samsung to provide consumers the disc to digital capability to take their personal DVD library and add it to their UV locker. This is a service we believe will be positively embraced by other Hollywood studios and CE device manufacturers, as well as retailers whose white label stores we power. Speaking of retail partners, I am happy to announce we will be powering a movie service for Dixons in the UK. Dixons is the largest consumer electronics retailer in the United Kingdom and one of the largest consumer electronic retailers in Europe. Operating white label store fronts for large consumer electronics retailers is a key driver for the Rovi Entertainment Store's success. Consumer electronic retailers can offer gift cards or other promotional incentives with the sale of connected devices which include the Rovi Entertainment Store power branded store front, which can meaningfully increase store front activations. We believe a retailer with the size and marketing clout of Dixons can not only deliver significant device distribution but also achieve much higher activation success than many other similar service offerings.

In terms of device distribution, it is worth pointing out that we only began powering the Flixster Store online in Q3 and are now supporting Flixster Store application in a number of operating environments including PC, Mac, iOS, Android, Samsung and Panasonic. We also continue to add device functionality for our other existing retailers launching the Cineplex store on Samsung BluRay players and televisions in Canada and rolling Best Buy's CinemaNow service out on the PS3 and XBOX platforms in the USA. The latter is of particular note as we are experiencing higher activation rates on game consoles than we have historically experienced on other connected devices. The result of this activity is that we are now enabling approximately 63 million store fronts on connected devices. Speaking of devices, RIM recognized and [implemented] a video distribution solution to make its tablets competitive. Given the strategic importance to RIM of such a solution, we are very pleased they selected the Rovi Entertainment Store. We will initially provide a store front of RIM playbook devices in the USA with pending launches for Canada and the UK.

In regards to the Rovi Entertainment Store platform, as has been mentioned on prior calls, we acquired a business that needed an investment in fortifying its offering and bringing it up to the standards required to scale beyond the [current] customer base. We believe the success we are discussing today indicates our investment in the Rovi Entertainment Store platform is paying off; however, our ability to meet the demand for this platform and our existing customers' expectations remains dependent on our continuing to increase the platform's functionality and bringing the service up to carrier class performance and scalability. Overall, while the Rovi Entertainment Store is a nice standalone offering, more importantly, it is also part of our total customer solution, fitting in now with our data and TotalGuide offering. As mentioned last quarter, we are actively discussing with many of our SD customers about providing them a private label VOD solution leveraging the Rovi Entertainment Store platform to enable their cable customers to access TV and VOD entertainment virtually anywhere through IP connected devices. The solution is a cost effective end-to-end platform that offers content preparation, cloud hosting, and multi-format IP delivery as well as support for subscriber authentication. This offering will first come to market as part of TotalGuide XD. TotalGuide XD will provide the SP customer a streaming video service which provides the consumer access to all of the networks they access as part of their cable subscription, as well as Rovi Entertainment Store powered VOD solution.

As for advertising, we achieved significant growth in both footprint and revenue in Q4 and anticipate this trend continuing throughout 2012. Our key advertising performance indicators continue to show sharp increases across the board, including new advertiser growth and new campaign launches. We also continue to expand our advertising footprint within both the guide and on connected devices. The Rovi guide footprint has grown significantly year-over-year with the most notable launches in 2011 occurring in several of Cox Communications' key markets. Sales of connected televisions and increased internet connectivity rates are also driving healthy distribution growth for our advertising platform.

More connectible units from our existing CE partners were shipped and activated at higher rates, thanks to improved content choices, consumer promotion and in-store education. We have now begun the onboarding process for Panasonic and Toshiba, and as I mentioned earlier, we expanded the scope of our Samsung advertising partnership to allow the Rovi ad sales network to sell ads within applications as well as to serve all Samsung [households] on their behalf. As such, our advertising footprint continues to grow. In 2011, we targeted an advertising footprint of 50 million homes. We are now targeting 70 million homes by the end of 2012.

Distribution isn't the only foundation we're building to sustain continued accelerated growth moving forward. Enhanced functionality and measurement are also key elements for our future growth, and we made great strides in these areas in 2011. We continue to push to ensure that we deliver advanced functionality to our advertisers that allow them to engage with their customers on a deeper level than their traditional 30 second television ad buys. We provide advertisers advanced functionality such as geographic targeting across our entire footprint, supporting multiple avenues to provide requests for information, and campaigns that include both video within a microsite and pre-roll video prior to an advertiser's interactive experience. This also underscores one of Rovi's core value propositions, our extensive creative capabilities. Our creative team has built thousands of advertiser campaigns and interactive experiences across our entire distribution footprint. The combination of detailed measurement, additional scale, and advanced functionality continued to drive advertiser wins for us in nearly every category.

We recently finalized the integration needed to enable commerce transactions across our entire footprint, and we can now execute contextual commerce campaigns using not only toll free numbers or websites, but with QR or quick response codes, those printed square black and white or colored boxes that look something like bar codes. Now, television viewers can point their Smartphone at the QR code on the television screen, and they are linked to a rich advertising or commerce opportunity on their phone. In Q4, we provided contextual commerce QR campaigns for both the Biggest Loser Cookbook and Showtime's Dexter campaign. Our commerce partner tells us that we had a 9% conversion rate, which means that 9% of the people who visited the store front made a purchase for Dexter. They told us that this is one of the highest conversion rates out of any campaign they have ever done. We expect our commerce campaigns will expand even further in Q1 when we launch remote control commerce, which is consumers making purchases using their television remote.

From a revenue standpoint, Q4 advertising again grew significantly on a global basis, propelled in part by strong performance from conventional advertisers. Due to increased demand, our inventory sell-through increased sharply in Q4, allowing us to increase our rates based on demonstrated value. Conventional categories that show continued success included financial, automotive, pharmaceutical, consumer packaged goods and music. Q4 revenues came from both new advertisers and a high percentage of return customers. Some notable advertisers domestically included Liberty Mutual, Quicken Loans, Bank of Montreal, Ford, Lincoln, Abreva, Lantus, Lovaza, Axe Body Spray, Bertolli, [Tellman], Ragu, and the Universal Media Group. Internationally, notable advertisers include LEGO, MINI, Red Bull, Honda, British Telecom, and Ladbrokes. I believe the advertising business is a tremendous opportunity for us and I anticipate we'll demonstrate even greater growth in this area in 2012.

As you can see, and as we have discussed at our Investor Day last month, despite the long forecasted drop off in our analog products and the short-term headwinds for our CE vertical, we have many reasons to be optimistic about the future. Our business today remains quite strong, and I believe we are well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities ahead of us. And with that, I'll turn it back over to Alicia for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir.

(Operator Instructions)

Ralph Schackart, William Blair.

RALPH SCHACKART, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Good afternoon. A couple questions. Tom, could you just clarify your statement please on the prepared remarks, I think you said something about adding a sizeable customer in the near future. Can you give us some more color on that?

JAMES BUDGE: In which area of the business?

RALPH SCHACKART: I believe you had said MSO or cable customers for Total Guide if I'm not mistaken?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, so maybe he cut out a time, but he had mentioned Mediacom on the service provider side? So we just renewed our agreement with them and as part of that, they agreed to adopt some of the components of Total Guide.

RALPH SCHACKART: Was there a further statement beyond that, James, about a new customer?

JAMES BUDGE: We basically talked about what we've done with Bend and Armstrong in terms of deployment. Basically, what we said is we have three now but we've had really pretty tremendous success in the service provider space with the entire Total Guide offering. We found very clearly that what we're offering really does resonate very strongly with the service providers and for us, it's turning out to be very good.

We also delivered the first Total Guide code to our operators on time and as we expected, so it's been so far very good in the service provider space, so I'm pretty optimistic about the prospects for more customers signing on with us.

RALPH SCHACKART: Great and just to clarify, the Toshiba within Japan rollout, that would be a new announcement -- is that correct?

JAMES BUDGE: We had an agreement already with Toshiba that we announced previously. This was expanding it to include Japan, so basically this is now a worldwide agreement with Toshiba and basically what we're doing with Toshiba is rollout of Total Guide in places like the United States.

RALPH SCHACKART: Great. One more and I'll turn it over. Can you maybe give us some color what was driving the growth in DivX in the quarter and what your expectation is for 2012 within that category?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, I think DivX has been a nice part of the acquisition that we got from Sonic Solutions. It ends up being a business that is heavily driven by unit shipments and a lot of different product categories, and the overall unit shipment categories including areas like mobile have helped us.

RALPH SCHACKART: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Sterling Auty, JP Morgan.

STERLING AUTY, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Hi, guys. Just maybe to clarify, James, when you look at -- so we get the apples-to-apples, the Roxio that was put into discontinued ops, what would that have contributed to revenue and EPS for the quarter?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, it was about $18 million to $20 million in revenue for the fourth quarter and about $0.03 to $0.05, but it would have been had it been in there which is pretty consistent with what we said at our Investor Day where we mentioned it did just over $60 million for the year and about $0.10 to $0.12 for the year on the earnings side.

STERLING AUTY: Okay, great. And then another point of clarification, I just want to make sure I heard it right. You mentioned the five Tier 1 OEMs, the Sony, Samsung, et cetera. I believe you said that your agreements now cover all major territories. Is that correct and does that -- is that for product or patent or a mix?

JAMES BUDGE: It depends on the account, but yes, it does cover all of the territories that we play in and it covers both product and patent.

STERLING AUTY: And last question and I'll turn it over. When you look at the investment that's necessary to power the Rovi Entertainment store front, the servers, the stream, et cetera. I'm sure it's already in guidance, but is there a sense of how capital intensive that business might be?

JAMES BUDGE: We put a bunch into it last year and we still are only -- on our CapEx, only increased by about $5 million over our normal run rate of about $15 million to $20 million, so it probably puts us now as a combined business on a $20 million to $25 million a year CapEx spend, so a little bit higher, but not too much higher.

STERLING AUTY: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Rob Stone, Cowen & Co.

ROB STONE, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Hi, guys. As usual, I'd like to drill into advertising a little bit more if I can. You mentioned sell-through was up nicely and CPMs are improving. Can you quantify at all what your sell-through is relative to inventory exiting the year?

JAMES BUDGE: It's still pretty low on the conventional side. We have a lot more capacity that we could bring in that we're filling with the entertainment side and the direct response side but as you've seen in some of the charts we've put out, we increased our campaigns from -- on the conventional side, from about two campaigns, two to three campaigns in '10 to close to 30 campaigns in '11, so that's a good trajectory for us to fill that inventory up with a lot more higher valued, higher CPM-type inventory.

TOM CARSON: One thing that has been good is particularly in Q4 is just because of the fact that the footprint is getting bigger and we're becoming more meaningful to conventional advertisers. Frankly we have utilized a lot more of the inventory, so it's actually helped us from a pricing perspective.

ROB STONE: Great. The year-on-year growth was very big, so I was trying to get a sense of sort of what the Q4 exit rate was. For instance, how many of the 27 conventional campaigns happened in the fourth quarter, if you're able to share that?

JAMES BUDGE: Probably at least 10 of those.

ROB STONE: Great. With respect to the digital copy platform, so far it's just the one hardware partner Samsung, is that right? And when will that be shipping?

TOM CARSON: Basically, it is just the one partner, and we would expect shipments in probably in the next couple of months. It was demonstrated at the Consumer Electronics Show. There is very active interest by a number of consumer electronic manufactures that we're talking to.

We look at that as actually a pretty nice potential for us from a business perspective because there's an opportunity for us to license the hardware manufacturer, which is one part of it, but there's also potentially a transactional revenue stream there too for it, so a really nice opportunity for us we think.

ROB STONE: Yes, I'd like to get one of those myself, actually.

TOM CARSON: Exactly.

ROB STONE: So far just Warner and I think you mentioned other studios were in the works, so is it conceivable that that would have several hardware partners in broad studio coverage by holiday season this year? I'm not trying to pin you down to a forecast.

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, it's conceivable, sure. At least certainly more than the studios we have, more than the one and more than the one we have on the hardware side.

ROB STONE: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. John Vinh, Collins Stuart.

JOHN VINH, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Just a quick follow-up on clarification. On Toshiba, the expansion of that license agreement in Japan was that product or patent?

TOM CARSON: It actually has a capability to be both.

JOHN VINH: When was that deal signed, and were there any meaningful catch ups that we should be thinking about?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, it was in December and like previous quarters to that, there were definitely catch ups related to that.

JOHN VINH: Great, thanks. And then my follow-up is just a follow-up on Total Guide set-top box. Can you clarify what the first four or six MSOs you guys have talked about -- are those deployments going to be Total Guide on iGuide deployments or are these Total Guide on new hardware deployments?

TOM CARSON: Basically, the way -- if you maybe understand how we configure the Total Guide for service provider, it is a platform that fits on top of iGuide. So if we have an iGuide customer out there, Version 1.0 which is actually completed and actually in testing, is how it will work, and that sits on top of the iGuide platform.

JOHN VINH: I see, and then you previously have talked about some larger MSOs, like Cox on Total Guide. Do you have any updates there?

JAMES BUDGE: I'd say there's still prospects. They aren't signed yet, certainly in Cox and many others we talk to on a regular basis and, when we have something more to say on that then we'll bring it to you.

TOM CARSON: I think just generally speaking, I think the whole concept of Total Guide for service provider resonates pretty well, just because of all of the dynamics that are going on in the marketplace, so all of the things that are happening in their particular business certainly gives them, whether big or small, a focus on trying to have an overall better guidance experience.

JOHN VINH: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Jeff Rath, Canaccord Genuity.

JEFF RATH, ANALYST, CANACCORD GENUITY: Hi guys, thanks. Just a couple more higher level questions. Maybe James, you can take the first one here. Looking out at 2011, do you have any approximation of how many of the connected TV sales globally Rovi was paid for? Like a rough percentage?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, I'd probably say somewhere in the 40% to 50% range would make sense.

JEFF RATH: Okay, and then does that -- is there any reason to think that should increase, call it in '12 given some of the renewals? It sounds like some of these renewals are expanding the breadth and reach. Or is that something we should just hold more constant? And I'm just talking the IP portion for now.

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, I think at a minimum on the IP side, I think it stands to reason that over time, most connected TVs we would be getting paid on at least on the IP side. Obviously the grander goal is to have a lot of product that we get paid on as well, but certainly on the IP side, you're right.

JEFF RATH: Okay, and then a second follow-up. Just expanding on a previous question around DivX. What exposure does DivX have to non-Apple tablets as that market begins to expand?

JAMES BUDGE: Well, that was a big part of the deal that we did earlier in the year with LG and Samsung. You go back -- I think it was either the first or second quarter we announced those deals, and those deals were largely around their tablet and mobile platforms that they had, as Tom mentioned before. Some of the great strengths in the year for DivX was around those incremental opportunities with mobile and tablet.

JEFF RATH: Do you see potentially more OEMs in that category adding DivX?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, definitely.

TOM CARSON: I think from a market perspective, one of the initiatives for us in DivX is to definitely take advantage of the opportunity and the mobility for sure.

JEFF RATH: Got it. And then just last one and I'll pass it on. With regards to your general category which, ex-Roxio, you define as your CE category, is there anything in that category now that has characteristics of a mature or declining business the way some of these legacy businesses are? Or would you say predominantly those are all growth segments, if you will?

JAMES BUDGE: I think, Jeff, you're referring to what used to be called the Consumer Software and Other category that had Roxio in there.

JEFF RATH: Yes.

JAMES BUDGE: Roxio was the consumer software part of that category, so it's not called Consumer Software anymore. It's just Other, and the three components there are Rovi Entertainment Store, which is clearly high growth; data licensing, which is nice growth, I wouldn't say that it's hyper growth but good growth; and then the third part of that is the analog copy protection studios, which is definitely in decline.

JEFF RATH: So I lied. I'm going to try and sneak one more in. You announced over a year ago a Sony Total Guide design win, and we haven't really seen a lot of activity. Sony seems to be going through its own challenges in that division. Can you share with us your thoughts around Sony and Total Guide? Thanks.

TOM CARSON: Yes, actually, one of the components of Total Guide for us -- there's a couple components. There's guidance component, there's ad network component and basically, we are included in the Sony Bravia products, and it's predominantly with our ad platform that's part of Total Guide. So we are pretty well integrated with them and have a license agreement with them for that, and we're doing the add trafficking on their behalf as well.

JAMES BUDGE: I think it's safe to say, Jeff, we certainly expect more activity with Sony this year than we had last year.

JEFF RATH: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: Yes, thank you. I was wondering if you could just walk us through the business model on DivX Plus Premium. It sounds like that's pretty promising, but how different is it from the traditional DivX business?

TOM CARSON: Well, the DivX Plus Streaming I think actually is a pretty interesting business for us. It's basically a capability whereby you can adjust to the available bandwidth, but you can have a much better experience for the consumer. So for us, it gives us an opportunity to go back to the CE manufactures and get an additional license fee for that.

ED MAGUIRE: Okay, and just on UltraViolet, how do you see us being able to mark progress and Rovi's opportunity as you get more and more participants around UltraViolet?

JAMES BUDGE: I think our claim would be that the UltraViolet specs that are out there that our solution at the Rovi Entertainment Store comes as close to meeting that as anybody else out there. Certainly, what you've seen in the first two or three movies that have come out that have -- from Warner Brothers through the Flixster capability was powered by us have said they are UltraViolet enabled. I'd say we are, we believe that we're at the leading edge of that, and I think as UltraViolet continues to proliferate, then we will continue to benefit.

ED MAGUIRE: Great. Thanks so much; I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ben Swinburne, Morgan Stanley.

BEN SWINBURNE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Two I guess broader questions. I would love to hear your comments and update us on Rovi's existing relationship with four of the big guys out there, and then where you see that going over time. And I'm talking about Apple, Google, Amazon and Netflix, so I think you've heard of all of them.

Apple -- obviously I think you have a deal in place, but I think it was relatively narrow in scope, correct me if I'm wrong. There's a lot of discussion moving to an Apple television product later this year, in '13, and there's now been a lot of press about Google launching an entertainment product, hardware product in the home, certainly revolving around video.

Amazon Prime is the video service, Netflix has a lot of stuff they do around search and discovery, which touches your patent. Can you talk about those which are obviously all going to make a lot of noise in the next couple years and how Rovi it fits in with [each]? I know it's a longer discussion, so maybe just a couple minutes on each would be helpful.

TOM CARSON: Very fair questions, I think. I'd just take them each individually and just briefly, 10 seconds or less. Apple, we're very pleased with our relationship with them. You're right to the extent they come out with an Apple branded TV, that's an additional licensing opportunity for us, but we're pleased with the relationship we have with them already. They are a good license customer.

Google, we'll probably not comment on that. We don't want to preempt anything that Google might want to announce or accomplish in the marketplace, but certainly, to the extent they came out with a hardware capability that would have tie-in to our patents, we would expect to be part of that solution.

And on Netflix and Amazon, it's probably known at this point we're engaged in lawsuits with both of them. Certainly we believe that we should be getting paid for patents that are inherent in their guide capabilities and their systems, and we'll see how that goes over time.

BEN SWINBURNE: Maybe just a follow-up related to Amazon as a potential store front. If they get involved in UltraViolet, which I'm sure the studios would love to see happen, how do you view that as it may or may not impact Rovi? Do they have to deal with you on a patent basis on the streaming front, or is that all purely Sonic and they just represent a competitor?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, it's on the product side. I'm sure given where we are on the IP side, they're probably not going to be rushing to use our store front.

BEN SWINBURNE: Exactly.

JAMES BUDGE: So I wouldn't count on too much there, but certainly we would love to sell them more, and if they are interested, we'll have that discussion.

BEN SWINBURNE: Okay. And last question. In the prepared remarks, I don't believe you mentioned Charter -- obviously a management change there. I just wanted to hear if you have any update on your relationship with them who are the largest of your Total Guide partners?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, we talked about -- the ones that we mentioned were more on the XD front, which are the early rollouts of Total Guide. Charter, to the extent they get there over time, would probably be more on the set-top environment. I'll let Tom speak as he's closer to it -- where we are with the overall relationship.

TOM CARSON: Actually, we've been working pretty hard to actually deploy some of our existing guidance solutions like Passport with Charter, and I think that continues to go well with them. Certainly the management changes that they have have put things on a little bit slower pace in terms of them doing anything different, so we expect it's probably going to be a while as they go through their management change before they get engaged on some more advanced set-top box type of capabilities.

BEN SWINBURNE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. John Bright, Avondale Partners.

JOHN BRIGHT, ANALYST, AVONDALE PARTNERS: Let me follow-up on the final question, last question. Management change at Charter -- does that impact your expectations for Total Guide this year?

JAMES BUDGE: You know, we didn't really have, consistent with what we said in November and again at the Investor Day, we don't have a high expectation for Total Guide related revenue in 2012, so I'd say our expectations are exactly the same as they were. As you roll into 2013 though, frankly, I think we're optimistic that when things shake out with how Charter decides to go forward, I think we're probably in a little bit better position than we were before.

JOHN BRIGHT: Got it. On the other category that you talked about, James, in your prepared text, saying that I think the offset between analog and Rovi Entertainment Store makes it probably a down category in calendar '12. When should we think about the inflection point for growth in that segment?

JAMES BUDGE: Definitely the end of '12 and just mildly, you're directionally right on what you said, but I actually said in 2012, it would largely be offset, so expect flat in that area for 2012. It's high growth in Rovi Entertainment Store and modest growth in data offset by analog. The analog component inside the other category will be only about $5 million for 2012, so obviously not much left to go in 2013, so we should definitely expect growth beyond 2012.

JOHN BRIGHT: Okay, and Tom, in your prepared text, you talked about Rovi's digital copy. You seem pretty excited about it. Practically speaking, how is the content authenticated?

TOM CARSON: Basically, we had a technology that -- media recognition technology, and basically we utilized that technology that we had from one of our other businesses to go through an authentication process.

JOHN BRIGHT: So you receive the content and you have to sign up your device. What happens on the consumer front?

JAMES BUDGE: It's like a tagging or a footprint technology that allows the device to recognize whether your licensing rights that you have in the stored content in the cloud, whether you can access that on the device.

JOHN BRIGHT: Okay. Final question. Coming back to DivX, a lot of people asking a number of questions there. You mentioned mobile as a driver of the success. What about connected TVs?

TOM CARSON: Yes, I mean that's a part of our business and an active part of our business for DivX, so that's probably where we have one of the best penetrations and we look at it as an opportunity in terms of growth for DivX in the area of mobility.

JOHN BRIGHT: And would you say mobility -- certainly the top category -- connected TVs really just the growing category right now?

TOM CARSON: Well, growing, it probably is mobile devices like tablets, but certainly size wise, BluRay players and digital TVs would be still the bulk of the revenue stream there.

JOHN BRIGHT: Terrific. Thanks guys.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Todd Mitchell, Brean Murray.

TODD MITCHELL, ANALYST, BREAN MURRAY, CARRET & CO.: Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask you about the Rovi Entertainment Store and the rollout of white labeled stores for other retailers. Can you give us some sort of milestone in terms of how many -- at some point, what the backlog looks like, and could you also flesh out how long it takes and roughly what the size of the economics are?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, we haven't historically given out numbers of storefronts because we like to concentrate on meaningful storefronts like the Dixons one that we announced today. So those certainly we'll trumpet, but if you just want to take a quantitative measure, we frankly have probably 10 to 20 in the queue lined up, all of them varying in size from a couple that are pretty large to some that are really not worth mentioning all that much.

TODD MITCHELL: And based on the size of the retailer, does that determine how much the size of the up front payment? What determines how big that original, that initial contract is with the retailer?

JAMES BUDGE: Yes, certainly, the size of the retailer, somebody like a Dixons would be paying a meaningful amount for the hosting of the store front as well as -- obviously, you get tons more traffic for potential transactional-based revenue, so we definitely give a lot more attention to the bigger ones.

TOM CARSON: And then, too, just on the services we're actually providing. If we're providing end-to-end services, definitely the monthly or quarterly base fees that we have are higher than somebody who's saying we are not going to do the entire ecosystem.

TODD MITCHELL: Okay, and can you also explain in terms of your integration with UltraViolet and with the Rovi Entertainment Source, can -- from a practical purposes, can a customer have content that is delivered over a Rovi Entertainment Store that is not in DivX format?

TOM CARSON: Yes.

TODD MITCHELL: And so basically, can your devices and guidance, I mean could there be, can you handle multiple formats through your infrastructure?

TOM CARSON: Yes, we can.

JAMES BUDGE: We definitely can, but again, obviously, we believe it's a much better experience if you're using things like DivX Plus Streaming capability in there, the DivX format. Obviously, we're somewhat beholden to our own technology, but we can definitely recognize any format.

TODD MITCHELL: Right, and do you see retailers -- I mean obviously, you would like to standardize on the DivX platform, but do you see retailers wanting to offer multiple formats to hit as broad a footprint as possible?

TOM CARSON: Yes, I think so, and as it relates to the Rovi Entertainment Store, we're going to support multiple formats, so including DivX Plus Streaming, but we'll do others as well. It's the nature of the business.

JAMES BUDGE: And actually if you get into the weeds of the UltraViolet specs, it mandates support for additional format.

TODD MITCHELL: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. At this time, I would like to turn the conference back to Mr. Carson for any closing remarks.

TOM CARSON: I just want to thank everybody for their time and attention today, and I certainly look forward to talking with everyone in the future. So thank you very much.

JAMES BUDGE: Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and Gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. If you'd like to listen to a replay of today's conference, please dial 1-800-406-7325 or 303-590-3030 and enter the access code of 450-8428 followed by the pound sign. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
macrov : Rovi Corp | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3433 : Alarms/Signaling Equipment | ielec : Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120301e82g004h7
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 athenahealth, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,528 words
   PD
16 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the Athenahealth Q4 2011 earnings conference call. My name is John, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of the call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Ms. Dana Quattrochi. Ms. Quattrochi, you may begin.

DANA QUATTROCCHI, IR, ATHENAHEALTH INC: Good morning, and thank you for joining us. With me on the call today is Jonathan Bush, our Chairman and CEO; and Tim Adams, our Chief Financial Officer. On today's call, Management will share brief highlights from the prepared remarks we published yesterday, and then take questions from the audience.

We would like to remind everyone that certain statements contained in this conference call may be considered forward-looking and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private. Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements reflecting our expectations for future financial and operational performance, growth rates, profitability levels and trends, selling and marketing efforts, the benefits of our service offerings, research and development for new service offerings, the impact of government reform, and our creation of a sustainable market for health information exchange.

Forward-looking statements may often be identified with words such as we expect, we anticipate, upcoming, or similar indications of future expectations. These statements are not promises or guarantees, and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties under the heading Risk Factors in our most recent annual report on form 10-K, and other periodic reports filed with the SEC, which are available on our website at investors.athenahealth.com, and on the SEC's website at sec.gov. These statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise the information contained in this call.

Finally, please note that on today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures in which we exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring items, such as stock-based compensation from our GAAP financial results. We believe that in order to properly understand our short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of these items as a supplement to financial performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to yesterday's press release announcing our fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 results available on our website for a reconciliation of these non-GAAP performance measures to our GAAP financial results. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Jonathan Bush.

JONATHAN BUSH, CHAIRMAN, CEO, ATHENAHEALTH INC: Thank you Dana, and good morning everyone. Well 2011 really was good to Athenahealth. We delivered strong financial performance and exceeded our internal goals as we measure them in our corporate balance scorecard. I am thrilled with our financial performance, but even more proud of the work we did to expand and differentiate our service offerings and deliver more value to our clients, while exceeding our financial goals.

We set a new industry standard for transparency and operational integrity across physicians of all kind with the release of our meaningful-use dashboard and the compliance success therein. We demonstrated the value of our cloud-based application and services model by successfully changing the behavior of our clients at the point of care to their benefit, and societies as well. As of January 14, 83% of our participating providers had successfully attested. We know of no Company whose clients have attested by even half of that rate.

We grew our installed base across all of our offerings, we added over 4,000 physicians to collector, almost doubled our Athena clinical physicians, and grew our Athena Communicator physicians by almost 500%. We worked hard on building out our enterprise pipeline and proved we can play in this segment by signing three major new logos to the Athena network, and by expanding the business with our existing national accounts by 22%.We acquired a new service platform with the acquisition of Proxsys LLC, and launched our fifth service offering, Athena Coordinator. We proactively sought and received a favorable opinion from the US Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, which allows us to create the first two-sided market for the exchange of health information.

We enter 2012 as a multi-service line company positioned to create a successful market for health care exchange. 2012 needs to be the year of execution and coordination across our entire network against this fabulous opportunity. If we get this right, our clients and the supply chains around them will start enjoying the improvements in care coordination, patient satisfaction, and ongoing innovation that come with two-sided markets. Meanwhile, we will enjoy the continuation of our blistering pace of growth.

As I think about our three-pronged strategy for 2012, there are three key words that organize our work. Jedi, beautiful, and coordinate. I'll be focused on answering all of the following questions in my pursuit of this strategy. How easy can we make it to enter and use athenaNet? How quick and cheap can implementation onto athenaNet become for our clients? What percentage of our athenaClinicals base can we move to our new order flow transaction-based pricing model? How broadly can we scale up our new care coordination operations? How can we find new ways to help our clients coordinate care and then profit from it, so they continue to do it more and better? How can we attract more companies and capital to the cloud-based services ecosystem that we have started?

We look forward to sharing more details about our progress in achieving answers to these important questions over the course of 2012. I'll now let Tim take a minute to review key financial details with you. Afterwards, we both look forward to taking your questions.

TIM ADAMS, CFO, ATHENAHEALTH INC: Thank you, Jonathan. Good morning, everyone. We were pleased with our performance for the full year 2011, which marks our 12th consecutive year of annual revenue growth in excess of 30%. We closed out the year with strong Q4 2011 financial results, with total revenue growth of 33% and non-GAAP adjusted net income of $9.3 million, or $0.26 per diluted share. During the full-year 2011, we grew total revenue by 32% over 2010 to $324.1 million, and grow our non-GAAP adjusted gross profit by 35% to $206.6 million, or 63.8% of total revenue.

We invested in growth and innovation, increasing our GAAP selling and marketing expense by 51% to $79.8 million, or 24.6% of revenue, and increasing our GAAP research and development expense by 27% to $23.3 million, or 7.2% of total revenue in full-year 2011. Our non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA grew by 38% to $70.6 million, or 21.8% of revenue during full-year 2011. We ended the year with a very strong balance sheet, with $138.5 million of cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments. Included in this number is $18.6 million of available-for-sale investments that are classified on the balance sheet in investments in other assets as they have a maturity date longer than one year.

Before we take questions, I want to remind everyone that the first quarter of each fiscal year is characterized by higher expense levels related to the reset of FICA payroll taxes, vacation and bonus accruals, and sales and marketing events, such as the HIMSS annual conference. I should also emphasize that discretionary use of physician services declines during the holiday season, which leads to a decline in collection by our physician clients about 38 days later. While we do not provide quarterly guidance, it is important to keep these seasonal factors in mind when formulating expectations for our Q1 2012 performance.

In closing, we will continue to remain focused on the true value of our clients, and getting them paid for doing the right thing. We will continue to differentiate our service offerings, and we will continue to work tirelessly on behalf of our clients and to stay ahead of market and regulatory demands. We will continue to invest in growth and innovation to maintain our 30% growth trajectory and capitalize on our unique market position. With that, we would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session.

(Operator Instructions)

Charles Ryhee, Cowen and Company

CHARLES RHYEE, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thanks for taking the questions here. Jonathan, when you guys talk about the favorable ruling from the OIG, and creating this new two-way transaction platform going forward, is that really a precedent for the entire market, or do you think it's really -- when you speak of it, is it very specific for Athena. Then secondly, how do you see that change in the pricing of your other products, maybe even Clinicals, perhaps, as you go to market and try to get physicians to think of it more on a transaction basis? Thanks.

JONATHAN BUSH: Good questions. I think the OIG obviously doesn't operate for Athena. They are specifically commenting on our approach to pricing, but then generally allowing anyone else who wants to take our specific approach to pricing as well. Now, they don't have as much range of motion as the market would like. They're not allowed to, for example, allow a direct payment from a receiver to a sender, which is just too starkly controverting of stark.

There would need to be legislation that would give the OIG permission for a more easy to adopt Safe Harbor. Today, the Safe Harbor applies to everyone, but really only Athena could fill it. Maybe somebody like an Envoy or McKesson's EDI group could do something like this, as well. The typical players, the legacy software players as currently constructed, could not take advantage of it.

We believe in legislating a bigger hole than we need for ourselves when we seek government clearance. We continue to work on this in Washington, and seek legislation that would let other players, either customers themselves, or other entrepreneurs take advantage of this, because this is how there's going to be care coordination. These other things are not creating care coordination in a meaningful way, because they're so dependent on whoever happens to have bought the software application. Anybody who owns software applications is not going to be coordinating anything for a long time, because they're going to be choking on their software application.

In terms of its impact on our pricing, it's absolutely having an enormous impact on our pricing. Basically as of today, athenaClinicals base rate, the rate of the portion of athenaClinicals is paid for as a percentage of collections, is 30% lower than it was last year. But, you have to pay $1 per order if the place you send your order is not a receiver on our network. Also, you can now become a receiver on our network without having any of our products.

There's athenaCoordinator, which is a very easy to install light product for hospitals, and we'll expand that to other receivers. There's a thing called Order Flow, which any doctor, lab, any entity that wants to receive orders from Athena cleanly with the information they need, can now turn on, basically install, and in an hour it's basically a website that can download data if you want it to. It's a bucket order to be a receiver on order flow.

What we expect over time is that 30% of our revenue that is currently paid for by the sender, begrudgingly -- they didn't realize there were paying for other people's coordination of care will migrate to the receiver side. In fact, maybe over time the 30% will turn into 40% or 50%. We've had several payers be interested, several of the folks involved in the prescription space interested. We, for the first time, have begun at least a two-sided conversation, where the receivers of value actually are starting to believe that the senders, these doctors, could actually send them what they want, and as such they're starting to negotiate, which is very exciting.

CHARLES RHYEE: That's helpful. Just one quick follow-up there. For your existing Clinicals-based, is the pricing the same, or if they want to they can choose to switch to the new model where they get paid for the transactions?

JONATHAN BUSH: Exactly right. They don't get paid, that's illegal. That should be legal, but it's not, so instead what's going to happen is they will only pay for the transactions that are to non-connected entities, entities that Athena has never connected to. When Athena does connect, than the receiver will pay Athena. They won't pay the sender, they won't pay the primary care doc. They'll pay Athena what the primary care doc used to pay Athena. It's to create and incentive for everybody to engage in coordination of care.

All of our customers have the option today. It will be rolled out to the customer base as an option, as a preferred option, at our users conference in April. We're focusing right now and getting our sales force turned around and trained up on this new paradigm, and we hope to have them so good at it by April that we can devote our teaching energies to the customer base. We expect to see a meaningful percentage of our clients, particularly those who are net senders of referrals who bear this unfair cost to switch over.

CHARLES RHYEE: Great thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Mike Cherny, Deutsche Bank

MIKE CHERNY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, guys. I want to dig in to the enterprise side of the market a bit. I know you can't give any clarity on the three deal that you had signed in late December. Just in terms of thinking at the rest of the market, in terms of weighing these deals and how you see the pipeline evolving. Can you talk about some of the conversations you're having and the traction you're getting on that side of the market, particularly since we're now starting to move into Steve kind of getting into his sweet spot, and kind of ramping up his sales force and his team?

JONATHAN BUSH: Okay. I'm not exactly sure.

MIKE CHERNY: Just general market activity and what you guys are seeing in the enterprise market?

JONATHAN BUSH: The enterprise team is now 20 folks on the sales and the account management. As you know, the account management side of -- because these enterprises, what we call national accounts, are themselves growing ventures, a huge amount of growth comes from existing clients as they acquire or build new capacity. Our PE back and publicly traded hospital clients, our urgent care clients, our new -- and one of our new ones is an ambulance clients. These are guys who are inquisitive and filling out RFPs all the time, with real management teams and real balance sheets, and are growing.

Half of Steve's effort is A, serving in a unique way, but also supporting the growth of existing enterprises. That's where the majority of our enterprise team growth came this year. Then another half is actually going out and finding new logos to begin the journey with, because of our experience, because of our utility as a flexible kind of a lien partner, most of the national accounts that we add are balance-sheet aware. They are acquiring other businesses, they are growing and they need a growth partner. They're usually for-profit entities that are private-equity backed, or not-for-profit entities that are looking to act like a for-profit entity. They've brought in professional management, maybe they're becoming acquisitive, maybe they're starting subsidiaries that are going to be more aggressive in the market.

Those are the kinds of folks that Athena has done well with, for obvious reasons, and that's really where a lot of that growth is coming from. It's increasingly disproportionately kind of PE-backed single-specialty modality plays, or PE backed hospital plays with a really strong professional management team that want to really press on the thing. The folks with endowments, that raise money to do investments in business, with chicken dinners and guest speakers, aren't typically our prospect base

TIM ADAMS: Michael, this is Tim. Just on those, the three deals that we announced in January that happened at the end of the year, we're not at liberty to release a lot of detail.

JONATHAN BUSH: They're in implementation now, so they need to keep their team, roll out this information to them in a methodical way.

TIM ADAMS: But those are great deals. I think that's a tribute to Steve and the team to have a real strong finish at the end of the year. They made their number for 2011. Steve has been with us just about a year now and I think he's done a great job of ramping up the team. As John said, it's 20 strong, it's a very strong, well-rounded team. They're really hitting their stride as we move into 2012. I'd say we're very encouraged and optimistic. That's the pace that we're seeing from this team right now.

MIKE CHERNY: Great, very helpful.

JONATHAN BUSH: (inaudible - multiple speakers) side effect, I'll add a little more color just for everyone. One of the side effects a of Steve's time at the Company has been this notion of a solution design group. While Athena does not customize necessarily, the real estate that is called athenaNet is much larger than that which any one customer sees. So there is a real possibility for customizing of experience by turning on settings and interfaces and other things. We now have a dedicated group that does that, a real Athena Jedi. People who really know how to run a practice, really know the revenue cycle, really know what we call the clinical cycle, since a chart is merely a snapshot of a particular moment in time, and what really is going on is a series of flows of orders and results to all kinds of people in the clinical information supply chain.

That group is now serving the national accounts group under Steve, but also serving all of the community hospital deals that we're doing in the regular sales force. We now have a large number of what we call enterprise directors in the regular sales force that are selling to community hospitals and health systems around the country. We're bringing the kind of very national-accounts-oriented sales strategy and approach to those hospital deals.

These aren't $5 million, $10 million, $20 million-a=year deals, these are $3 million, $5 million, $8 million, maybe as much as $6 million-a-year deals that are single-market deals, they all look similar, but they really benefit from that level of prowess that has been built up in the organization by the solution design team. Why don't we talk about Steve's wins within that narrow segment of his sort of area of prospects. His impact on the Company has been much broader. A very large percentage of our regular sales force wins coming from hospital-type entities during 2012 -- 2011 -- and we expect are in 2012.

MIKE CHERNY: Great, thanks. Good color, definitely very helpful. Tim, just one quick question on the 1Q expense step-up. Looking back historically, it seems like it's hit kind of every line item on a sequential basis from the 4Q to the 1Q ramp. Can we assume that that similar-type affect where both cost of revenue, sales and marketing, all the different line items will see that cost increase?

TIM ADAMS: Michael to your point exactly a year ago, and going back this time every year we've seen it. It's a recalibration of FICA taxes, the way the benefits work, vacation accruals, bonus accruals. You really do have a significant step-up in expenses in Q1 versus Q4, and it touches every line item, direct and all the indirect. Sales and marketing, we try to get out of the gate very strong in the beginning of the year. We've got the HIMSS conference. Rob and his team -- Rob has said hey, we're going to quadruple the number of flywheels that we have in 2012 versus what we had in 2011.

You really want to hit the ground running pretty hard at the beginning of the year. We had a pretty good hiring success rate in Q3 and Q4 of last year. You're going to have the full impact of that rolling into Q1 on a head-count basis, merit increases. We have taken a look at where the street is for EPS in Q1, and it's well above where we think we're going to be. Our guidance for 2012 is unchanged. We're still very confident in the plan for the year as a whole. I just want to caution folks that they don't get too far ahead of us in Q1 with an aggressive EPS number. We've talked a lot about investing in the future of growing this business. We're hitting that real hard starting in the first quarter. You're right, there's also that phenomenon of the Q1 step-up of expenses versus Q4 that we're seeing right now in Q1.

MIKE CHERNY: Perfect thanks.

JONATHAN BUSH: There's that Christmas present we all get. We get to open extra taxes in the first part of every year. It's a special thing.

OPERATOR: Sebastian Paquette, Goldman Sachs.

SEBASTIAN PAQUETTE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Hoping you could shed a bit more color on what automation software you're planning on rolling out for athenaCoordinator this year. Should we expect this to go live second half of 2012?

JONATHAN BUSH: What automation software we're rolling out? I'm not sure what that is, Sebastian.

TIM ADAMS: I think it's more of that integration into athenaNet. It's really the automation of the work flow. What we see today in the old Proxsys model, it's highly labor intensive. It very manual on the pre-registration, pre-certification. The R&D team is very focused on how we go in and look at the work flow, and re-design the work flow, and try to integrate more deeply into athenaNet, with insurance verification, checking, and things like that. That is going to be -- it's a key project in R&D in the year, you'll see that in the numbers. That's what's going to help us get on that plateau, to start driving that gross margin up. As we exit the end of 2012, it's going to look a lot better than where we come into 2012.

SEBASTIAN PAQUETTE: Got you. Then just 5010, Tim, impact maybe on your ERA, and then also on your COGS if you can help size that up or frame it for us?

TIM ADAMS: Yes, so there was a little bit of a delay in getting some claims through in 5010, no fault of Athena's. I think our team has done a terrific job of being ahead of that curve. That is the big project in 2011 that we were working on. When we submit our claims, we have a batch of clean claims that go into the clearinghouse, and they get bundled in with some other claims from other folks that are not as clean, and it causes a little bit of a delay. It hangs up in DAR a little bit. We're hopeful that it's timing, it all gets cleaned up in the first half, hopefully in the first quarter of 2012. It does create a little bit of a spike in the DAR.

SEBASTIAN PAQUETTE: Got you. Then finally, in terms of the three enterprise deals you've announced year-to-date. I just wanted to clarify those were in your initial 2012 guidance. I know you don't give backlog reports, maybe just talk about some of the backlog activity in maybe the enterprise segment?

TIM ADAMS: Yes. We had a lot of confidence in Steve and the team when we were working on the plan for 2012 that he would be successful. Whether it was December or January, we thought these deals were going to happen. The good news is they came in in January, so that is included -- in December. That was included in our plan for 2012. As we look at the enterprise pipeline, I think as John commented earlier, the team has done a great job of really going out and understanding who the prospects are in the market, strong regional approach and going very deep. I'd say we feel as good as we ever have about the enterprise pipeline and kind of the pace we have going into 2012.

In terms of backlog, if you will, we do have a handful of accounts that are in the implementation pipeline. We talked about UH we signed back in the summer. Probably about 10% of UH went live. That's an 850-doc account that will go live in phases in 2012. Detroit medical group will go live this year as well. Those are couple of the big ones that we have line of sight that's in with the professional services team.

SEBASTIAN PAQUETTE: Great thank you.

OPERATOR: Ryan Daniels, William Blair.

RYAN DANIELS, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Jonathan, you talked a lot in your prepared remarks about your superior ability to help your physicians successfully attest for meaningful use stage one. I'm curious in two regards. Number one, is that yet resonating in the small- to mid-size dock offices? Is that going to be a big part of your marketing message and flywheel campaigns? Number two, maybe more important, is that resonating yet in the enterprise accounts, with your ability to change behavior and align practice patterns, is those accounts considered more risk-bearing and financial shared savings in the future?

JONATHAN BUSH: Excellent question. One of the things we didn't -- that we don't talk about in detail, and didn't talk about in our prepared remarks, but that was a high point of 2011 was the change in the close rate. The percentage of folks that take a phone call or meeting with us, something that we call -- we have a term in our pipeline called meeting. The percentage of that, between meeting and close, went way up during the year. That was due to a lot of training and simplifying of our packaging and other testing that we're going to roll out nationally this year.

I haven't been able to isolate the ability to guarantee meaningful use at that station to the small group market, but my intuition is, and the intuition of [Tom Nat], who has been the leader of our small group sales team for a while and done a phenomenal job, is that that thing is that the simpler you can make the discussion and the more you can make it about the outcome, and not all of the theoretical fine-print inputs, the more you get not just the business, but the trust to get them to fly Athena air during implementation and all the way through. That is -- it's many bips and bobs to get a large looking number, but we get a lot of them, and they go very well, and the relationships go very well.

We think that meaningful use was sort of a bellwether, or archetypal kind of coalescence point for us, that we really rallied about seven different functions within the Company around making sure that our people got to the goal, and gave us practice at doing it. Our competence at rallying around a payment for quality opportunity internally to Athena is better than ever. Our clients' readiness to respond to guidance from -- we have our account managers, but we have a campaign war room where if there's a specific type of behavior that every practice needs to know about and adopt, they run a campaign around it. It's been used for some cross-sell or adoption of socket, but also for these quality payment programs. We think that competence will have a much longer-term impact than just a meaningful use program.

One of the things I said about MU right from the very get-go was where do MU itself and these quality metrics that they mean anything, which they don't? Its reminds me very much of that Keynesian approach to pay 1,000 guys to dig a hole and another 1,000 guys to fill it back in. It did have that effect of teaching people how to go for quality. It certainly taught us to get our clients to go for quality, and our clients learned it.

We're seeing now all of the commercial market adopt either a risk program or quality bonus programs, we are able to set up the same type of war room for every single one of them, and really drive behavior around the top few, to the degree where we're even changing the entire packaging of our core products to reward thinking about where you send you referrals, making sure you're sending your referral to the most online, most connected, most responsible receiver. That was never there before. I've got to hand it off, I've got to tip my hat a little bit to that impact of the legislation, at least within the client base of Athenahealth.

If you look at the percentage of the other, more traditional software HIT vendors, the percentage that attested is abysmally low. I don't know what the number is, somewhere in the 5% of doctors, or 10% of doctors attesting. I don't know if they got the memo, But we've certainly taken it and used it, as is our practice, take these pieces of unnecessary stuff that we've been given by the government and turn it into the learning experience, and we expect it to affect our sales and our brand of a lot favorably going forward.

RYAN DANIELS: Okay great, thanks for the color. Maybe Tim, a quick follow-up for you on meaningful use. Does that have any material impact on Q4, with the (inaudible) station checks coming in, did that benefit your bottom line at all, or was it pretty de minimus?

TIM ADAMS: It did help a little bit. I'd say it was under $1 million of revenue that was in the quarter that does come to us at a high gross margin, most of it was meaningful use. A lot of that work on our side was done throughout the year. It's under $1 million, it helped a little bit. It wasn't a huge number.

RYAN DANIELS: Okay, thanks guys.

OPERATOR: Jamie Stockton, Morgan Keegan.

JAMIE STOCKTON, ANALYST, MORGAN, KEEGAN & COMPANY: Good morning, thanks for taking my questions. Jonathan, what I'm curious about is from a sales and marketing standpoint, with the new Coordinator platform. Could you talk about what kind of resources you are dedicating to signing up labs and finding partners that are going to make this really economically attractive for a physician practice?

JONATHAN BUSH: Yes, we have a whole group, the founder of Proxsys is leading the charge, George Salem. Then he's got a group of colleagues that are helping him. Then of course our entire sales force is trained up on initiating the sales process for coordinator. The primary target audience are hospitals, and hospitals have everything. They have labs, they have pharmacies, they have radiology, they have all of the different modalities that will become receivers. Their primary focus is those hospitals and not the national player single specialty lab chains or radiology chains, et cetera.

We are absolutely going to go after them, probably go after them with our business development teams, since those will be more complex multi-tiered deals. We fully expect all of them to come on board. It's a steal, just from a pure OpEx benefit for the receiver, and then of course to be on the top of the fold and visible as a more online, more coordinated, more cost-effective for the primary care doctors, who's often been scrod, which is a fish here in Boston, is something that they all want to have in common.

We expect most of the early buyers to be hospitals. We expect most of the hospitals that close to be folks that are either buying collector and Clinicals also, and say yes, I want to throw this in to, and do a campaign out in my community to recruit doctors without having to buy them and lose money on them necessarily. That will be the first wave. Then folks that are -- that looked at buying it and said, gee, darn it, I just bought some $100 million massive investment and I can't undo it now. But I really want to be on the network, so I'll just by Coordinator and have that kind of layer of cloud access attached to my legacy IT until I can amortize it enough and get my courage up with my Board to put a cap in it.

JAMIE STOCKTON: Do have any feel for the number of markets or maybe a goal for the number of markets that maybe by the end of the year you would be able to have critical mass in, and it would really be attractive for physicians to get on this?

JONATHAN BUSH: Well, as Tim mentioned earlier in a better answer to Paquette's question than I could give, the big focus on Coordinator is not sales. The demand for Coordinator summatically exceeds the capacity of the operating group that runs Coordinator to serve it. They just simply can't take on as much business as we can bring. We are close to -- we have in the negotiation stage, the final stage of the sales process, here in February about 50% of the total hospitals that we currently have the capacity to serve for the year in February. So that's concerning.

A major investment of the Company is going to be in scaling up the artist formerly known as Proxsys, scraping work out of their business process, and either moving it to our operations with Dell and IBM, or moving it right to the online, to the eligibility checking and other capabilities that we've got electronically during the year, so that we can accept more business. We simply cannot hire enough insurance-trained nurses in Birmingham to accomplish the kind of growth that we've experienced appetite for in the market yet. So that's a big focus of ours during this year.

That probably could have driven the margins of the whole Company a little higher if we didn't insist on being able to accommodate as much of that business -- with quality. We're not going to accept more business than we can serve with quality, after all these years building a brand that deliver results. We are in a -- what is it, Scyllus and Charybda, or Scylla and Charybdis -- between proper capacity handling, proper quality delivery for these guys and demand. It won't be there forever, we know how to do this.

It's year one, and so there's a lot of heavy lifting in the early days to get that scalability. I would call the coordinator operations highly capable and out of control through the manufacturing terms. We can deliver on anything our customers ask, but each thing we deliver on takes a little bit of a fire drill. The rest of our Company now is delivering on sensational asks with cool kind of planned calm. We just need to invest sufficiently in that core group there to get them to the same place, and we will, and it will be great. Then we'll take on a lot of volume.

JAMIE STOCKTON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Constantine Davides, JMP Securities

CONSTANTINE DAVIDES, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: Thanks. At the investor summit you guys talked about launching a couple of Apple-native mobile applications. Can you talk about where that initiative stands, and if there's any plans under way to support other mobile operating systems? Then Tim, just one follow-up on the three enterprise contracts. Can you maybe give us a sense for, in aggregate, how many physicians are represented by those agreements, and if any of those are double- or triple-barreled arrangements?

JONATHAN BUSH: I'll answer, and I'll take up all the time so that he doesn't have to keep saying no to you guys with these short-term questions. I have in my hand, to a quote a fellow Republican that I'm not very proud of, a list of 15 million in box items for Dr. Bush on my iPhone app, and it is so cool. I'm not happy with it at one level because I've got a million hopes for it and I want them all to be there. I want you to be able to talk to your in box, and have them cleared to your staff, or moved on to Athena to follow up on, and lots of things that aren't true.

Man, is it satisfying to have that little pinch screen or look at a lab result that's been scanned and entered by Athena, and whip it off to next in box item, and all that stuff. We've dabbled with it and have an alpha version, which we may release to beta to all of our existing customers at the user conference, certainly would be fun.

The mission of the iPhone app is primarily to drive down the doctor's in box, the clinical inbox. You can take calls, take a beeper call from a patient, pull up any patient in your database, and refill his prescription or send a task to your office to reschedule them, et cetera, from this app. It's neat, it's pretty quick. It is not in the iPhone store. It is not native on the machine. Our patient safety team is still getting comfortable with the idea of letting PHI sit on a device. I've got a call with the guy who runs health care, they actually do have a vertical leader at Apple. I think that call may be today, actually, I'm not sure. We'll talk about getting deeper with them.

As you all probably remember from my conference, we really want the experience of Athena to customers to be as beautiful as the experience of Athena is to ourselves, when we come in here, and get that little lift when people kind of give a wink and a smile in our weird-shaped hallways here. We're passionate about it. I know I am. I can't tell you how satisfying it is to have a neat little iPhone app, and how exciting it is to see the drawings on the wall of the iPad app.

The only thing I want to make sure we don't do, because Steve Jobs will come out of the grave in a black T-shirt and punch me in my mouth if I don't tweak enough before we release it. I'm afraid to death of the usual launch-and-learn approach that we've used all these years releasing kind of middling little things that don't give you that shock of adrenaline when you found something really beautiful. I don't know what to announce in terms of when stuff will be GA. I know that all our sales guys are getting Apple equipment now sometime during the first half of the year to be able to start doing demos.

I know we've got the team, this new user experience team of ours is up to over 20 strong, and just drawing beautiful pictures of our future. The developer's have accepted them, and are actually taking medicine from them, so I expect to see a lot more in the way of beautiful apps. But I really want to be good at saying no wine before its time with this chapter of our user experience.

TIM ADAMS: Constantine, just on the three deals. Out of respect of confidentiality with our customers, being their most trusted business partner, we cannot release the details, they've asked us not to. What I can say is, one of these is a large medical system. We're hopeful down the road maybe we get a press release out on that one. The other is a large ambulance transport company.

What 's great about these three deals, they're great deals. Two of these companies are really growing very rapidly, and I think they looked at Athena to say, we believe you can keep pace with the growth and the scale that we have in mind, which is quite dramatic. In a couple of the deals we had, Communicator was included. I believe we had Anodyne in one or two of the deals, as well. This is a great start for getting our team going in 2012. Hopefully down the road we'll have more to say about those, but they're terrific wins for the team.

JONATHAN BUSH: The cross-see team was ecstatic that there was no Clinicals in these big deals because they've been doing such a good job knocking out cross-sells that they were afraid they'd run out of oil in their wells. We just added a lot of cross-sell oil to the cross-sell well.

CONSTANTINE DAVIDES: Thanks for the color guys.

OPERATOR: Atif Rahim, JPMorgan Chase & Co.

ATIF RAHIM, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Hi, thanks. I guess I'll go ahead and ask the obvious question --

TIM ADAMS: Atif, can you guys hear us?

OPERATOR: Yes. I'm sorry, this is the operator.

JONATHAN BUSH: Can you hear us?

OPERATOR: Yes, we can hear you.

ATIF RAHIM: I'm hear, can you guys hear me?

OPERATOR: Yes, we can hear you. Everybody's still on line.

ATIF RAHIM: Okay, perfect. I guess the question I have is on doc adds during the quarter. It came in lighter than what I'd expected. If I look at the backlog you had explained last quarter. What was in the bag was about 450. Relative to what you've put up in the past that was lighter. In terms what you've said about the sales force expansion, awareness rate going up, et cetera. It's kind of tough to correlate. How do you reconcile thoughts on those two?

TIM ADAMS: Yes Atif, this is Tim. It's north of 700 docs that came in in the quarter. Year-over-year we had 4,000 doctors for the year, 21% growth. We had a huge Q3, and maybe that's overshadowing Q4 a little bit. The implementation team has been running ahead of the curve all year long. That probably helped Q3 come in a little bit stronger at 1,600 doc adds. Summit Medical was one of the big ones that did go live in the quarter. We had a little bit of UH. I think our perspective is, sure we'd love to get more doc adds all the time.

I think we feel very good about the performance of the team in 2012. The Company had a terrific year, as John said in the opening comments. Certainly based on the success that we have seen in the sales organization and the growth team in 2011 was terrific as well. We've got a nice implementation pipeline rolling into 2012, and that's where some of these enterprise accounts, the UH deal that we announced back in the summer, that's when most of that is going to go live, is in first half a little bit into Q3 of next year.

ATIF RAHIM: Okay I guess my broader point is the number of docs that you've have been adding has been decelerating over the last three years in terms of the growth, so it's 25%, 23%, 21%. To keep up a 30% growth rate you need to do more cross-sells, so that's what it's kind of hinging on. I'm trying to figure out if there is a strategy that's going to accelerate the doc growth on, because the spending in sales and marketing doesn't seem to be paying off right now?

JONATHAN BUSH: Oh please. Have some Cheerio's, Atif.

ATIF RAHIM: I'm just asking. It's not accelerating. The spending is going up every year.

JONATHAN BUSH: Okay, let me give you something, it's a very fair point. Couple of things. First of all, of course doc adds bounce around, so there's some times we can draw a trend line and it's bigger. Sometimes you can draw a trend line and it's smaller. The other thing is, we don't talk about doc adds to Coordinator or Anodyne. These are our beachhead products. We are very good at cross-sell because we go to market as an online business service.

All of our products have in common consistent conversations between decision-makers at the client and account managers at Athena, including Anodyne, which has, I believe, 20,000 -- is that right, about 20,000 providers in their client base, and we have been very successful just in this last year, not in earlier years, cross-selling from Anodyne Athena. They are at a major attendee at our institutes, and unlike proposals to the average prospect, when we do a proposal to an Anodyne prospect, we are intimately familiar with where the operational improvement areas are, because we've been advising them using their business intelligence on where to focus.

It's not so bad. One of the things we're going to work on is expanding like a good cable company that's public, expanding a view of providers, cable receivers and then whether they have HBO or ESPN8, the Ocho, or not, is something that you can then speculate more as a cross-sell thing. That's one thing, that's a second thing to consider. The third thing to consider is that during the course of this year, our close rates went up, and we basically hit our pre-high close rate meeting goal.

We expect, and what we did with our meeting goal was drive it up 30%, right? Our prospect meeting, our upper-funnel metrics grow by 35% or 30% every year, and those are largely discrete entities. I think in the national accounts group they're allowed -- a meeting can count as a second or third meeting with an existing national account, maybe. I know we're talking about doing that. But by and large, these are new entities sitting down with Athena, and those metrics continue to go up at the rate of hull speed.

I know you guys -- it's unfortunate, right -- because no matter how protective we try to keep the street from the choppiness of our business, or how protected ourselves from the street, we try to keep from the choppiness of the business, you're always going to be able to find a leading indicator that is choppy. Certainly doctors dropping onto the network is a choppy one. Certainly, as I've been saying since Clinicals was released, while we have an exposed flank, we must cross-sell.

This is the first year and the last point on this. This is the first year where the sales force is going to market in what we call Athena One. Athena One is the ability to buy all of our services all at once for a single, it's really two-point price. Smaller groups this year will be able to buy Athena. If they use our online implementation it's no implementation. All one percent is for Collector, Clinicals, Communicator, and then for Order Flow, a buck an order if they got out of network, and nothing if they stay in network. That's the new packaging, and it's for all of our services combined.

We believe that our sales force, after many years of training, and has reached the place where they can talk about all five major services, in the same amount of time as they used to be able to talk about collector. We are getting to where, as he said, by 2013, 2014, we're going to need to have each sale be -- the 30% growth is going to have to be coming from 30% more docs. We think we're on track to getting there, even though you don't see it yet, because we're still cleaning up behind, and those other three factors I gave you.

That's my best answer. I don't get the affect the feeling of Athena getting weaker on growth. I understand how with that lens you might get that feeling. You're just going to have to keep checking me out and see whether my bullishness proves true and you start to trust it. I will be bearish when I feel bearish with you guys. There will be plenty of times where that will be true. I'm not feeling bearish, other than basically terrified of another year of 30% growth on now a significantly larger base. I'm terrified, but bullish.

ATIF RAHIM: Fair enough. That's a lot more detailed response than I expected, so I appreciate that. On the last point about the sales force and growing that, what are your goals for growing sales head count in 2012? I also noticed you reorganized the structure a little bit. Thoughts around the re-org and growth there?

TIM ADAMS: Atif, it's Tim. We ended the year at just under 100, it was 99. The plan for 2012 is to add about another 30, 34 for 2012. Most of that is back-end loaded, so we have the team that we need right now coming into the year to chase the targets that we have for 2012.

JONATHAN BUSH: In terms of change of composition, we did create three regions now. In each region, there is a director of the mid-market field force, and then at least one, sometimes two, and in the future three directors of what we call enterprise deals. These are not [Steve Kahan]. We're renaming Steve's group the national accounts group, which are largely multi-state clients, or very large academic clients. The enterprise director, these are director-level sales executives, there are our best sales executives. Most of them are veterans from a lot of years of success at Athena, are taking on these multi-product, multi-million dollar deals.

They are working in concert with group sales force, and a small-group sales force executive that are selling to doctors who refer to those enterprises. We are doing a lot of the network development work that hospitals are trying to do on their own for them. Those that are partnering with us are finding a much more balance-sheet efficient way of integrating care with doctors in the community than those who are trying to force buy at a loss everyone they want a referral from. Again, these are usually the for-profit guys that are trying these kind of things, but we have some not-for-profit clients that are very savvy, that are doing it as well.

That's a major change in our sales force strategy. We just finished our sales meeting last week -- was it last week? Boy, they got it. They really know how to talk about it. I watched these great coordinate breakouts by geography, where you'd have one of those market strategists, small-group execs, medium- group execs, enterprise exec, and one of the national accounts folks all in the room, with a Google map on the wall, knowing who is sending out most of the referrals. If we give away Collector and Clinicals to that guy, but didn't give away the buck an order, what would we get in terms of downstream interest in care coordinator services?

It's a neat thing to have everybody on the one database so you can sell that way. It's a very different experience going into a hospital when you actually have hundreds of doctors in the community already lit up, and all the hospital would have to do is sign on the dotted line and they would be instantly connected. They would be instantly connected, could even have an instantly connected single chart by the end of this year. It's a very different sales approach than any other Company can bring, and it's happening, it's actually in market today for the first time, since I don't -- how many investor meetings ago did I say that Athena Community was going to essential strategy. Well, it's now happening, and it's called athenaCoordinator, and it's very exciting.

ATIF RAHIM: All right, perfect. Thanks very much. We'll stay tuned. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Greg Bolan, Sterne Agee.

GREG BOLAN, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH: Thanks for taking the question. Just a little bit different spin on the previous question. Just seeing a growing divergence between business service revenue growth and doc add growth. I guess Tim as you stress-test the model, is this spread sustainable just in terms of driving the long-term 30% revenue growth goal? We've certainly seen a large pick up in business service revenues as a percentage of cash selections. In fact, it looks like all-time high in the fourth quarter. Just any thoughts there?

TIM ADAMS: A couple dynamics are really helping us there. It's trending very positively in the right direction, moving up. The cross-sell team has done a terrific job of selling Clinicals and Communicator into the collector base, and that team has performed very well. We're starting to see some of those accounts go live. Last quarter we announced Harbin Clinic and Alexian Brothers, two very strong collector clients that have been with us for a long time, now finally adopting Clinicals. That has helped a lot.

Then this other metric we share with everyone is the attach rate. On new sales, the deals that are collector and Clinicals came in at 74% this quarter, I believe it was 58% a year ago. You've seen that number stay in that low 70s for the past few quarters. When we add Communicator into the mix and you have all three services, we're at about in the low 40 percentile this quarter, which was up dramatically from a year ago, knowing that that service offer has only been in the market for about seven, eight quarters now.

That attach rate of new deals is also helping out, so it's both of those dynamics. John made a good point earlier that's worth repeating, is watching and protecting the flank. We have a strong base of collector clients. We know there's competition out there that's talking about Clinicals and other services into our existing base. Having the cross-sell team, and having these attach rates so high, in selling that broader Athena One service suite to our existing clients is absolutely critical, so we don't open the door for anyone else to even think about getting in there. The metrics are pointed in the] right direction right now for us.

GREG BOLAN: That's great, thanks. I'll jump off, thanks.

OPERATOR: George Hill, Citigroup

GEORGE HILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions. I'm going to jump around a little bit, and Jonathan for you I might even go with a full Star Wars-themed question list. I want to start off with the sales re-org. In your individual markets Jonathan, what kind of leeway do you give sales reps with respect to how they can price new Collector business? Where I'm going with this is that if you're going to price at 4% of gross collections to a five-doc GP practice, but how far will you let them go down if you were to get a 200-doc multi-specialty practice, or a 25-doc oncology practice? Will you price down a 3%, 2%, 1.5% of collections, recognizing that when you look at a lot of those large practices, their cost to collect can be sub-1%?

JONATHAN BUSH: Excellent question. What we've done is, we have given each regional VP a very high level Director of Market Strategy. That market strategies has in their -- the VP and the strategist together -- have in their coffers a meaningful chunk of our -- whatever it is -- $100 million of sales and marketing investment, that they can use to give away fees. Now they can't give them away forever. A discount forever, you'd use up your whole bucket, theoretically, right? You can give away implementations, you can give away a year of a service. You can give away all kinds of things to get those makers of manners to kiss. So I'll see your Star Wars, and raise you Shakespeare -- kiss me, Kate.

That is the idea this year. These guys actually have a war chest of fees. They can plunk it all down on that critical 30-doc multi-specialty, I mean single-specialty primary group that's just obstinately independent, and that every hospital is going to jump all over. They could spread it out in the form of discount to key guys. They can do whatever they want. But some of the sales and marketing budget, and it's a meaningful number but I don't know what it is, is in their hand. By the way, we might -- if it starts to work with a positive ROI more than that last million of paid Google, then we'll switch it over.

That's what [Cosinuke] and [Jamie Mallinger] and [Pierre Volet] and all of our marketing guys are so good at is optimizing the ROI of our marketing spend. We expect -- we have high hopes for that strategy. It's being launched. It's in market now, this week, for the first time. Obviously they don't have any deals like that that they've done yet. That's we're treating that. We're treating it as an alternative to a flywheel dinner. You can just give away services to test, to give a tasting to the most influential player in the market.

GEORGE HILL: Okay, and then I'll ask a follow-up which is kind of a cultural question. I'll say how do you keep the rebellion alive? By my math this is, with this tweak of the sales organization, this is kind of the last sales re-org. It's at least the second sales re-org in the last couple of years. You talk about breaking the sales force up into regions with regional directors. Not to be too frank, but from a sales perspective you're starting to sound like some one of the companies you make fun of.

JONATHAN BUSH: (laughter) That's awful. Although I'm certainly easy to make fun of and should be made fun of by all. We've been re-orging Athena about every six months for 13 years. I don't know, maybe we've not done the sales force as much, I'm not sure, maybe that's true. The goal is to be more about this notion that the market is after of care coordination, to take the capital out of the problem, and results into the problem. No software companies that we know of sell results. There was this piece of our revenue stream that didn't care about results. I could look in the database. Last year, I could look -- right now, I can look in the database -- 48% of everything doctors ordered 60 days ago didn't match to a result and get filed. It's a hanging chad -- 48%.

Now some of that's probably we just didn't do a good enough job of matching. Some of it's because the bloody pharmacies don't -- haven't, insurance companies doesn't yet give fill data. They will, and then we'll match it. The problem was we didn't make any money by caring, and neither does the doctor. That just seemed like a problem. Every time we see that, we're going to re-org the whole Company around it. So there will be many opportunities for making fun of me on that front going forward.

GEORGE HILL: Okay. Just last one for Tim. Tim, I guess can you talk about trends in client churn? Have they been up, down, if you can frame it up with any kind of numbers that'd be great.

TIM ADAMS: For full-year 2011, it came in less than what we've seen historically. We've always talked about 5% annual revenue churn, and for the year as a whole it came in under that. We're very pleased with the results for the year.

GEORGE HILL: Okay thanks guys.

OPERATOR: Sean Wieland, Piper Jaffray & Co.

SEAN WIELAND, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Thanks. On some of these early coordinator deals that you're looking at. Can you talk about, is there a profile, kind of a particular profile of a hospital where the Coordinator strategy is resonating? Where I want to go with this is around the owned versus affiliated practice. Does this -- does Coordinator start to disrupt the economics of actually going out and buying practices?

JONATHAN BUSH: Certainly over time this will -- I wouldn't say it'll disrupt the economics, it'll replace the economics as the sand in the tanks gets into the gears. Buying doctors and losing $150,000 a year on them so that they will refer a 3% net margin into your hospital is a gas-in-the-tank strategy. It just takes a while for the -- sand-in-the-tank strategy -- it takes a while for the sand to get in there, but then the sand's in there and you're toast. We've seen it, it's happening again in lock step with the way it did in the late 1990s. Yes, it's the more cash-flow-oriented kind of intensively led by business strategists, institutions that are the most focused, we think.

Right now, we're still in the fog of just getting through our existing customers that want it. We have a few new prospects in the pipe that were Collector or Clinicals prospects but couldn't get across the line. They saw this as a way to date more intensively, and to get us into the tent. Either way, right now most of the folks we're engaged with are what I would call FOAs -- friends of Athena, already.

Our forecast is that it'll increasingly be used, once we get out of our own sphere of client base, it'll be just as you say, the folks that have seen past the end of the biosphere strategy. I'm going to buy everyone, we we're going to make our own vegetables and have our children, and all inside of a great glass software application terrarium. Those guys they can afford to keep doing will keep doing it, and those guys that run against the basic economic bankruptcy of that idea will be our clients.

SEAN WIELAND: Okay, good. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Richard Close, Avondale partners.

RICHARD CLOSE, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Yes, thanks. Just curious on the class rankings. That came out, I guess, a couple months ago. Have you seen any pick-up in lead flow after the positive ratings?

JONATHAN BUSH: We've seen a pick-up in posters on our HIMSS booth, I'll tell you that. I love to hate class, and then they go ahead and make us number one in class on the clinical side. Then what can I do? I have to love them. So we love class, and we're very proud of their judgment. Obviously, my critique of class is it's 99% of the folks, everybody that they measure is a software company. The things that we wish they would measure that we would know we would win on, they can't measure, because there'd be N/A as the answer across the rest of the survey. It's not their fault, it's the market's fault for not having enough competitors -- direct sort of business model competitors to Athena.

Still, we were thrilled that on the pure software of Athena Clinicals alone, we were top one, two, or three in, I think, every segment we serve. I don't know whether there were enough counts in the enterprise, not enough counts. We did very well, but didn't make the -- you need to have a certain number, and I don't know what it was. We're thrilled that sort of an insider, sort of JD Power, and there we are, at least showing up, and actually in some cases showing up the very top of the heap. It's great. We expect to keep winning there in different ways, even though we dare not run our Company against those metrics, since the metrics that are most important for our Company aren't measured there.

RICHARD CLOSE: So is that yes or no? You saw pick-up in lead flow based on class?

JONATHAN BUSH: I don't have the ability to regress such a phenomenon. There are so many sources of business. That's like -- it probably is true that that mouse who died in Burundi is affecting our lead flow, but I just don't know what it is. It changes the barometric pressure in Burundi, which created a cloud system over the Pacific, and I just don't know.

RICHARD CLOSE: All right. Just my second question here would be, obviously Harbin was a good rebound win from an existing vendor. Can you talk a little bit about when you expect the burn unit essentially to really ratchet up the adoption of Clinicals for you guys, when you expect a lot of these rebounds to maybe peak?

JONATHAN BUSH: I don't know about the peaking. I think that this is one that's going to go a long way. You have all those people that have plunked down in a panic on EMR software that they had looked down in the early 2000s and said no, then there's the high-tech and the panic about not having one. They bit the bullet and pushed one of those things in. I cannot tell you how often I go to one of these places that is a national account of one of these traditional vendors, and there ain't nobody using the thing. It's many cases. 35% of our clinical folks are folks throwing out a relatively new EMR, 35%. I don't remember what time last year I looked at that number, maybe Danny you can update, make sure it -- it might be more.

If you look at the logos, I mean Alexian and CaroMont, and what you did say, Harbin, did we get -- I don't know which ones we've announced here, but in Massachusetts there was a whole slew of them. There's a lot of folks that have tried to make it work with software. We just met with one of the largest Catholic systems in the nation, basically got no meaningful use from their whatever it was system, one of these software products, seriously considering how to explain to their Board wiping the thing off the balance sheet.

As it gets easier to stomach wiping that asset off the balance sheet, we expect many more admissions to the burn unit. We're also getting a lot better at sucking medical records data out of these old systems and reconfiguring them in athenaClinicals so that the experience of lost traction is less. Finally we've gotten rid of implementation fees for folks that want to do it. The guys that have been on EMR before, they can use our video implementation easily. They qualify for these free implementations. That also takes some of the sting out of having to do it over.

RICHARD CLOSE: Okay. Then just one final question, clarification on your answer to, I think it was Jamie's question on Coordinator. You said something about the demand 50%. It's outstripping your ability there to supply the offering. Can you just go over that again, please?

JONATHAN BUSH: Well, we have about -- if you cut out all the ancillaries -- probably 50-some hospitals that are current Coordinator clients. The entire business process of the coordinator product today is a manual one, done stateside by highly paid individuals with a lot of clinical expertise and judgment. We do need those individuals and their clinical expertise and judgment to get the kind of performance we need,. but we don't need them doing about 80% of what they do to get to the part where they use their judgment. They're doing eligibility checking, like covered/not covered deductible, stuff that Athena has been doing since my kids were not born yet, literally, online.

There is a huge opportunity to move the lower-value-added work to where it belongs, the way we have with every other piece of work we do. That will create an enormous amount of capacity for that group. Today, if you want to start a hospital, you need to hire a team of pre-search specialists, train them up in Birmingham, get them cubes. It's as if you picked up a person from the hospital AR department, registrar, and drove them to Birmingham and gave them their same set-up. That is not an ideal business model, and not scalable. It's great business -- the package and pricing of this thing is incredible, and we're very grateful to the Proxsys guys.

I would do the same thing. It's exactly what I did do. Athena had -- Collector had negative growth margins for seven years. It's amazing that George Salem and Karen were able to deliver 0% gross margin and still grow the way they did. It's just exactly what a seasoned entrepreneur would do. But now, in order to take it to scale, we've got to scrape that manual work out, leverage these people up like the rocks stars that they are, and get it to where we can not just double, but quadruple every year for several years to come. Right now we can probably not triple, probably not double. We probably couldn't add 55 more hospitals. We might. We could knock out 38 easily, 38, 40, 43, something like that. I'd like to add 50, but I don't want to break the thing. So we'll see.

RICHARD CLOSE: Thanks.

JONATHAN BUSH: Last question?

OPERATOR: Bret Jones, Oppenheimer.

BRET JONES, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Thanks for squeezing me in. Just had a question. We talked a lot about the cross-sell opportunity in the success. I was hoping to put a few metrics around it, specifically around Clinicals. If I look at Clinicals, the number of docs doubled last year. I'm just trying to attribute -- trying to figure out where to attribute this strength to, whether it's cross-sell, or the attach on new deals. If applying the average attach rate for last year of 73% to the number of new Collector docs, would imply about 2,900 clinical docs, and you added 2,300. I'm just trying to figure out if this is all attributable to the attach rate, or where the cross-sells currently stands into the existing base?

JONATHAN BUSH: I'm going to let Tim try with the real numbers, but I'll tell you what my intuition is. I have not been ready to say that we have reached critical mass on attach rate yet. The data shows that the 70%s might actually be where the curve starts to flatten out a little. However, we just rolled out this Athena One pricing, so there's the attach rate of Communicator? Communicator did, I don't know, 300% of its goal or something like that last year, cross-selling back in. Communicator's a no-brainer that no one knows about. Now it's going to be basically a default into every deal that you can de-select if you want.

I think there's probably one more year of upward-ticking attach rate on new deals. Then the rest of it will be attributable to -- you'll still have this -- there's still, what, more than half our base to cross-sell to, and no slowing of the cross-sell team. But also there is still some upward movement left in the attach rate thing with this new Athena one pricing.

TIM ADAMS: Yes, Bret, I don't have the breakdown between the cross-sell and the attach rate. We do know that the attach rate runs very high in these small group sales, and those are the one- to five-doc accounts. I don't have it broken out between the two for you.

BRET JONES: Okay, so I guess the way to clean up the question was, if I apply the attach rate to the number of Collector docs added, it would imply that all of your clinical adds were coming from new deals. That's not the case, because you're saying -- it sounds like you're saying -- the attach rate is more skewed to the lower end. Is that the best way to put it?

JONATHAN BUSH: That's absolutely right. It's definitely true that the attach rate is more skewed to the lower end. Larger institutions with more management teams, more irons in the fire don't just say, hey, give me the whole thing, I want the Lexus deluxe package where you change my oil in my house, or whatever. They don't want that one. The want to get their own oil change guy, and store their own gas, et cetera.

BRET JONES: Okay. Then just one last quick question. On the 5010 question, on how that impacted your DAR, I was just curious, why would that have an impact in the fourth quarter of 2011 when the deadline has been pushed back to March 31?

JONATHAN BUSH: Because we're migrating now. The deadline is not when -- it's not the front line, it's the back line. There is a huge expanse of payers who are able to accept 5010 right now, and we are migrating them over. One of our intermediaries just did not -- just had a slip on their testing. They just -- it wasn't a problem when the only claim in the batches they were forwarding were our claims, because they didn't need to do anything. But then what happened was they started to accept other people's claims into the same batch, other legacy systems claims into the same batches that they were forwarding on to the payer as ours, and whole batches were evaporating because they were getting hung.

Better testing would have allowed them to discern the ones that failed from the ones that didn't, and they are working very hard on cleaning that up, and have been very responsive to us. We expect that particular brushfire to go out. This is a dry and windy space here. We expect plenty more brushfires to crop up in the area of ANSI 5010 and ICD 10. We expect the government to wimp out and push back many times, as well. That's just the usual way of these things, when you try to get a half open, have socialized market place to do something, there's lots of fits and starts.

BRET JONES: Great thank you.

OPERATOR: I'll turn it back to you, Jonathan, for closing remarks.

JONATHAN BUSH: Well, thank you all. I think probably the most important thing I can say to you, we had, we were able to, thanks to our balance scorecard results, upgrade the Company meeting from the hallway here at Athena to the House of Blues, where we had a sensational band and simulcasting up to Maine and down to Georgia and Birmingham. The feeling I had was of a very rested, high-energy group of 1,800 people, and we have had both feelings. We have had the feeling of being left -- having failed, but rested and ready to make up for it, and we've had the feeling of having succeeded but we're really much happier in the fetal position weeping. This is a year where we have succeeded, and we are rested, and ready to do it again.

That's probably the most valuable indicator in my career, is how do people feel. Are they giggling and happy, or are they kind of doing a little more hugging than usual of each other, in a normal correct way. That's happening here. There's giggling, there's energy. We have a larger project list and more confidence that we'll get them done than we've ever had before by a lot, not by the natural growth rate of R&D. That's the feeling that we're taking into this year. I cannot tell you what a pleasure it is to lead a Company and get supported by investors in that setting. You don't need to do it that way. You can feel free to hammer us, and I'll still like my job, but what a great way to start a year. Thank you all for your interest in our story, and for following us so closely.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating, you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
athenh : athenahealth Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120301e82g00209
  


 HD
 Q2  2012 Lantronix, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
5,295 words
   PD
9 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 fiscal year 2012 Lantronix Inc. earnings conference call. My name is Josenia -- I will be your operator for today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of today's conference.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference, E.E. Wang. Please proceed.

E.E. WANG, INVESTOR RELATIONS, LANTRONIX, INC.: Thank you Josenia. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining Lantronix's fiscal 2012 second quarter conference call. Joining us on the call today are Kurt Busch, Lantronix's Chief Executive Officer and Jeremy Whitaker, Lantronix's Chief Financial Officer. A live and archived webcast of today's call will be available on the Company's website at www.lantronix.com. In addition, a phone replay will be available through February 16, by dialing 888-286-8010 in the US or for international callers, 617-801-6888 and entering passcode 17177530.

As a reminder, during the course of this conference call, Management may make forward-looking statements in their prepared remarks and in response to your questions and statements regarding product strategy, marketing plans, and future financial metrics, including revenue, profitability, operating expenses, cash flow, and working capital. These forward-looking statements are based on Lantronix current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially as a result of several risk factors.

For a more detailed discussion of these risk factors, and other risks and uncertainties, see the Company's recent SEC filings, including its annual report on Form 10-K, filed for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, and its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed for the fiscal quarters ended September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2011, which are available through the Investor Relations portion of our website at www.lantronix.com.

Readers and listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. If the Company were to update or correct one or more of these statements, investors or others should not conclude that the Company will make additional updates or corrections.

I would now like to introduce Jeremy Whitaker, Chief Financial Officer of Lantronix. Jeremy?

JEREMY WHITAKER, CFO, LANTRONIX, INC.: Thank you. In addition to GAAP results, we report adjusted net income, which is referred to as non-GAAP net income or loss, and non-GAAP net income or loss per share. We also report adjusted operating expenses, referred to as non-GAAP operating expenses. Please refer to our second fiscal quarter 2012 news release posted in the Investor Relations section of our website, where we have provided the definitions and reconciliations for the non-GAAP financial measures that we use.

We believe that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures, when presented in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides important supplemental information relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by Lantronix should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated according to GAAP. Management believes that non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income or loss, and non-GAAP net income or loss per share, are important measures of the Company's business.

Management uses the aforementioned non-GAAP measures to monitor and evaluate ongoing operating results and trends and to gain an understanding of our comparative operating performance. In addition, certain of our stockholders have expressed an interest in seeing financial performance measures exclusive of the impact of matters such as decisions relating to the restructuring, which while important, are not central to the core operation of our business. Non-GAAP financial measures used by Lantronix may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similar non-GAAP information provided by other companies. All financial results and reconciliations should be evaluated carefully.

Now, turning to our financial results for the three and six months ended December 31, 2011. Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2011, was $10.5 million, a decrease of 18% compared to $12.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2010, and sequentially, a decrease of 7% compared to $11.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011. The decrease in net revenue was primarily due to lower unit sales of embedded device enablement products in our Europe, Middle East, and Africa region, which we believe was significantly impacted by economic conditions in Europe. In addition, net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2010, included approximately $639,000 of revenue that was recognized as a result of modifying contracts with certain distributors in Europe and Asia. No similar revenue was recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2011.

For the six months ended December 31, 2011, net revenues were $21.6 million compared to $24.9 million for the six months ended December 31, 2010. Gross profit, as a percentage of net revenue, for the three months ended December 31, 2011, was 48.2% compared to 49.4% for the three months ended December 31, 2010, and reflected a slight sequential improvement from 47.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2011. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue for the six months ended December 31, 2011, was 47.8% compared to 50.2% for the six months ended December 31, 2010. Gross profit for the three and six months ended December 31, 2011, included a $480,000 charge for excess and obsolete inventory due to a reduction in sales forecasts for certain device management products.

GAAP operating expenses were $6.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011, a decrease of $0.4 million compared to $6.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2010, and down sequentially from $6.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011. GAAP operating expenses for the six months ended December 31, 2011, were $13.1 million compared to $13.7 million for the six months ended December 31, 2010.

Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $4.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011, a decrease of $0.7 million compared to $5.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2010, and down sequentially from $5.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011. For the six months ended December 31, 2011, selling, general, and administrative expenses were $9.4 million compared to $10.1 million for the six months ended December 31, 2010.

Research and development expenses were $1.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011, compared to $1.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2010. For the six months ended December 31, 2011, research and development expenses were $3.3 million, compared to $3.5 million for the six months ended December 31, 2010.

Restructuring charges for employee severance and related costs were $269,000 for the three and six months ended December 31, 2011. As discussed on our previous call, in November of 2011, the Company initiated a restructuring plan consisting of a reduction in headcount and other cost saving measures. The restructuring plan was designed to reduce operating expenses and bring them more in line with revenue levels, in order to improve future results of operations and to reduce our non-GAAP breakeven point to below $11 million. This restructuring plan is expected to reduce annualized cash expenses by approximately $2 million. The restructuring activities contemplated by the plan were substantially completed during the three months ended December 31, 2011.

Non-GAAP operating expenses were $5.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011, compared to $5.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2010, and $6.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011. For the six months ended December 31, 2011, non-GAAP operating expenses were $11.9 million compared to $11.7 million for the six months ended December 31, 2010. GAAP net loss was $1.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011, or $0.13 per share, compared to GAAP net loss of $579,000 or $0.06 per share for the three months ended December 31, 2010, and sequentially, a GAAP net loss of $1.4 million or $0.14 per share, for the three months ended September 30, 2011.

GAAP net loss for the six months ended December 31, 2011, was $2.8 million or $0.27 per share, compared to a GAAP net loss of $1.3 million or $0.12 per share for the six months ended December 31, 2010. Non-GAAP net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2011, was $629,000 or $0.06 per share compared to non-GAAP net income of $603,000 or $0.06 per share for the three months ended December 31, 2010, and sequentially, a non-GAAP net loss of $697,000 or $0.07 per share, for the three months ended September 30, 2011. Non-GAAP net loss for the six months ended December 31, 2011, was $1.3 million or $0.13 per share, compared to non-GAAP net income of $1.0 million or $0.09 per share for the six months ended December 31, 2010.

Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011, were $3.3 million compared to $5.8 million as of June 30, 2011, and $4 million as of September 30, 2011. Net inventory was $8.5 million as of December 31, 2011, compared to $9.2 million as of June 30, 2011. Accounts Payable were $4.8 million as of December 31, 2011, compared to $8.4 million as of June 30, 2011. Working capital was $2.4 million as of December 31, 2011, compared to $5.2 million as of June 30, 2011. Our working capital was impacted by the net losses recognized during our three and six months ended December 31, 2011. We believe that the restructuring plan and the cost containment measures initiated by Management in November of 2011, will reduce our future operating expenses, improve future operating results, and help stabilize working capital.

I would now like to turn the call over to Kurt Busch, Lantronix's President and CEO. Kurt?

KURT BUSCH, PRESIDENT AND CEO, LANTRONIX INC: Thank you, Jeremy. Jeremy has just spent the last few minutes giving you the financial details of what occurred during the three and six months ended December 31, 2011. Since joining the Company a little more than five months ago, the new Management team has embarked on an aggressive plan to create long-term value for our shareholders.

As discussed on previous calls, the four key elements of our plans are -- to hire and integrate the right leadership and resources to execute on our strategy; increase margins, decrease inventory, and ensure strong financial discipline is in place; develop a new product strategy that is intended to provide innovative new products that will increase market share, as well as expand the markets we address; take action to create a strong market driven product development machine.

While our financial results for the first half of fiscal 2012 were disappointing, I would like to emphasize that we have made, and continue to make, progress in all of our goals. In the past 150 days, a little more than five months time, the Company has achieved the following. We've rebuilt, recruited, and retained a management team with more than 150 years of experience in M2M and communication technology sectors. We filled all open senior-staff positions before the end of the December quarter. As of January, we have a new opening in the role of Vice President of Operations, and I expect to fill that position soon. All of these leaders have hit the ground running. The energy and commitment, and enthusiasm, they have brought to Lantronix has translated itself across the entire organization, and increased discipline and a renewed focus on execution in all functional areas, that, I believe, will ultimately lead to enhanced value for our shareholders.

We have implemented actions to bring greater financial discipline. As Jeremy discussed earlier, the actions we took shortly after joining the Company have started to show some signs of improvement in the December quarter, with an improvement in our gross margin percentage, reduction of inventory levels, and moving forward a lower operating expense structure.

Moving onto product development, we have put in place a product strategy that we believe will both expand the markets we address and allow for share capture in our current markets. In the last 150 days we launched two new products, the EDS-MD a next-generation medical aggregator and the Lantronix xPrintServer - Network Edition. The launch of these products represents a direct follow-through on the commitment I made to our shareholders on our last conference call, that we would launch into production, on average, at least one new product per quarter. The EDS-MD was launched into production in December 2011, as the newest edition of the award-winning EDS family of products. The EDS-MD is specifically designed for the stringent requirements of the medical market, provides mission-critical device aggregation, and allows for central and remote management of multiple medical devices. Thus far, we are pleased with the response to the EDS-MD, and we expect it to extend our reach into the medical and health care marketplaces.

On the last call, I said we would revive and refresh several mature, but still promising, product lines, to take advantage of today's technology trends. One of these trends is the adoption of tablets in the workplace. With that in mind, we revived our print server product line with the introduction of a new product family, the Lantronix xPrintServer. The xPrintServer enable seamless printing from Apple iOS devices such as the iPad or iPhone to a network printer.

The xPrintServer was conceived in my second week at Lantronix and launched into production in approximately four months. Installing the xPrintServer is easy. Open the box, plug it in, and print. The device will automatically reach out and configure both wired and wireless network printers, and make them available to iOS devices on the network, such as an iPhone, iPad, or iPod, with no-apps to load or any end-user configuration.

Designed with a growing segment of business iPad users in mind, the patent pending xPrintServer addresses, what we believe is, a significant gap in the current marketplace and provides a cost-effective solution for businesses to leverage their vast installed base of enterprise network printers seamlessly, in conjunction with iOS devices such as an iPad or an iPhone, without the need to purchase an AirPrint compatible printer for every desktop.

The industry response we have received since announcing this product in mid-December has been overwhelmingly positive and has included, at the Consumer Electronic Show, CRN named the xPrintServer -Network Edition, one of the top 25 must-see products at the show. At Macworld, the product received both Editor's Choice from Mac Observer and a Macworld Best of Show. Hands-on reviews performed by InfoWorld, Network World, TUAW, or the unofficial Apple weblog, TAB Times, have been equally positive, with comments like, "five out of five", from TAB Times and Network World, and then TUAW said, "You're going to love this product... it is drop-dead simple." An InfoWorld review stated, "it just works." I would like to thank all of the editors that have reviewed our products. We very much appreciate their kind words and the time they have spent.

While the accolades we have received are very affirming, the accomplishment I am most proud of is the substantial effort that was put forth by our engineering, marketing, and operations teams in bringing the new product to market in approximately [120 days] (corrected by company after the call). The focused teamwork and dedication they put into launching this product is indicative of the new environment and product development culture we are aspiring to bring to all of Lantronix's efforts going forward. As we continue to move forward in our commitment to launching, on average, one new product per quarter, our focus will be directed towards using the strongest elements of our increasing IT portfolio to build solutions that make sense for our customers and make sense for Lantronix.

Over the remaining calendar year, Lantronix plans to launch new product families that enable cellular and sensor device connectivity, as well as several new products that expand our existing product lines. We are excited about the potential of these innovative solutions and look forward to sharing more details in the coming quarters.

Over the last five months, we have made significant progress in every one of the key elements of our turnaround strategy. At the same time, Jeremy and I, and the entire team, recognize that we have more to achieve in these areas, and we continue to move aggressively forward, with commitment and energy in executing our plan. While we are not satisfied with our financial performance to date, we believe we are on the right track for stabilizing the Company, and positioning it for future growth, and ultimately delivering enhanced value to our shareholders, employees, customers, and partners.

Before turning the call over for questions, I would like to take the opportunity to thank my Lantronix colleagues, our shareholders, our partners, and our customers, for your ongoing support. Operator, we would like to open the call for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Paul Johnson, from Nicusa Capital.

PAUL JOHNSON, ANALYST, NICUSA CAPITAL: Thanks. Yes, Kurt, if I could, I would love to run through a couple of different questions. Starting with the Management team.

Obviously, you've only been there five months give or take, and I know there were some open reqs when you got there, and some upgrades. Can you just give us -- kind of - the order of magnitude -- how many people you have changed, brought in, and we should really view as part of the new Management team?

KURT BUSCH: Yes, so as to executive or at least my direct staff, I brought in a new CFO, Jeremy Whitaker, a new head of Product Management, Mak Menesh, who has a long history of M2M communication. A new Vice President of Worldwide Sales, who again has a long history of worldwide -- M2M communication, Rob Robinson. I brought in a new head of HR, a new head of corporate counsel - or a new corporate counsel, as well as a new head of North American sales, who is a returning Lantronix employee that was previously our number one salesperson, so we are quite happy that he has come back to Lantronix.

And I think that pretty much rolls out the full executive staff. The only position that I have not replaced is the head of engineering, and I am quite happy that the engineering team has maintained stability. We actually have had very little turnover in that department.

PAUL JOHNSON: So, when you say that the management team is very excited, it's pretty easy to say, since they are all new, they have all elected to come to help you turn this around in a fairly short order.

KURT BUSCH: Yes, that's correct.

PAUL JOHNSON: Shifting over to product for moment. I know in your presentation in New York and in some of your other presentations on the conference call, you've talked about the second half of calendar 2012, the most important two new efforts are cellular. Zehich sounds like it would be a bringing cellular to the current product line -- extending it over time to bring in a cellular communication to the current set of products, to complement what you have in wireless and wireline. Is that the best way to think about the cellular effort?

KURT BUSCH: Yes, that's a real good way of describing it. So the main Lantronix IP, and it's pretty much our special sauces on the serial communication, and that communication over the network. So here we are enhancing the network interface to be cellular, as opposed to wired or wireless.

PAUL JOHNSON: Is it easy to think that you are expanding market by 50% because you are adding a new interface? Or is cellular much bigger than what you address now? How important --

KURT BUSCH: We feel that it is approximately the same size to slightly bigger, and we also feel that it is a growing segment.

PAUL JOHNSON: And since the secret sauce is behind the interface, I assume the idea that once you offer cellular, you offer your whole -- a series of products over time, that you've demonstrated are very powerful in the wireless and in the wireline. You are now adding just a new interface, so presumably they should be fairly easy to get design wins over time?

KURT BUSCH: Yes, that is definitely our hope.

PAUL JOHNSON: All right. Now sensors, as I understand it, is completely different though. Because sensory is going after a market that you've never really addressed. And although in a sense it's just a different interface, you are really talking about bringing a whole new capability to a market that's probably been under served over the years.

KURT BUSCH: Yes, that is our feeling. We do feel that, from a technology standpoint, the serial communication IP that we have developed at Lantronix is very applicable to sensors. And it is, effectively, just a new network interface, or a different new machine interface, if you will.

Where serial was the old machine interface and sensor is now with the new machine interface. But the market that we are addressing as a totally new market, and it's a market of people that want to make decisions over the network based on some physical stimuli, whether heat, light, sound, pressure, or motion. So, we are quite excited about the opportunity into the sensor space.

PAUL JOHNSON: Did -- as it really prompted because you started talking about it, and I started to do a little bit of work in that area, and the observation I make is, that market appears to be much larger than what you've addressed historically.

KURT BUSCH: We definitely would hope so. I mean this is a new step for us, and we look forward to introducing products into that market.

PAUL JOHNSON: Second observation is, it appears to be somewhat under served by advanced communication technology.

KURT BUSCH: We would agree with you.

PAUL JOHNSON: Third, is that the competitors who you have gotten to know very well in your core, historical markets, don't appear to be anywhere near this market. So, if there's a competitor, it is brand-new people. And my sense is, that if you can really pull this off, you will be the first -- you will have first-mover advantage in some of these markets.

KURT BUSCH: Yes, we certainly hope so.

PAUL JOHNSON: So you have a large market, under served, and I assume it's attractive because you feel you can get there soon with technology that nobody else is offering.

KURT BUSCH: That is correct.

PAUL JOHNSON: And should we anticipate at least an initial effort before the end of the calendar year?

KURT BUSCH: Yes, before the end of calendar 2012, we will be offering both cellular and sensor products in the marketplace.

PAUL JOHNSON: Terrific. And then without -- we can't not talk about products without talking about the flagship product, xPrint. Can you talk -- can you flesh out -- it's been out in the market, I know, only for a few days now.

Can you just talk a little about commercial receptivity? You have always had spectacular editorial receptivity. What are you hearing in the market? Do people know about it? Are you starting to see traction? People starting to sell these?

KURT BUSCH: We're actually seeing a lot of interest on the enterprise side, though I can't comment on any kind of volumes. But we have heard from people that are in this particular space, say they get that particular question, how do I print from my iPad in an enterprise environment? And we understand, or are talking to people that serve this market, they say they get that question daily. So we are again, quite excited about the response that we have received for the xPrintServer.

PAUL JOHNSON: As I understand it, this thing, literally, you plug it in and your iPad recognizes it all within seconds or certainly no more than a minute. And then you can start printing shortly thereafter. I assume that has great appeal in the enterprise world.

KURT BUSCH: Yes, it is a very simple solution.

PAUL JOHNSON: And if I understand it, this is something that was conceived of after you got there and executed since you've been there?

KURT BUSCH: Yes, that's exactly right. We had the idea our -- my second week, here at Lantronix.

PAUL JOHNSON: And then, finally, on this product, everything I read about it that is issued, they keep saying that this is a member of a family of products? Should we anticipate that there would be more xPrintServers? Brothers, sisters, aunts, and uncles?

KURT BUSCH: Yes, most certainly Paul. The xPrintServer again, did a very simple, but we believe needed, function in allowing a iOS device such as an iPad or an iPhone to talk directly to a network printer. We have -- since announcing the product we have a lot of feedback for additional types of products, with additional kinds of features, that I look forward to announcing in the next quarters or so.

PAUL JOHNSON: Got it. Your new Management -- your five months old, and your Management team is less, by definition. The good news about your product portfolio is they are sort of the land of the living dead, it's sometimes impossible to kill these products.

You don't -- the revenues you had in the December quarter are a function of decisions made long before you arrived. They are on your watch I understand, and you guys are doing your best to watch the operating expenses, which you have a lot of control over, and refreshing the product line, and making sure the sales is executing well and all that. So you are going after the opportunity and servicing your customers so they like buying from you and all those sorts of things.

But as we look over the March quarter, June quarter, September quarter, what metrics should we be tracking from the outside? Because I know you can only have so much influence on revenues over a short period of time. Obviously, the operating expenses, you have set some goals by reducing operating expenses.

But what are the metrics that we should track quarterly? Where we get the sense that, in fact, you guys really are executing against your plan? You've got the one new product a quarter, we've got that, but some -- throw out some more things that we should be tracking.

KURT BUSCH: [Matt] I would definitely say -- probably the most important metric for future growth of Lantronix is the one new product per quarter. And I think that new product introductions are really what is going to accelerator the growth of Lantronix.

There is a number of other goals that we have stated, such as reducing our inventory and increasing our margins. I also think that our key metrics to show that the operations of the Company is being done in an efficient manner.

PAUL JOHNSON: The blocking and tackling of -- on the margin. We shouldn't expect gross margin to pop several percentage points a quarter, but we should see steady improvement there. We should see working capital improvement.

You obviously have set the bar for lower operating expenses. So all of those metrics are fair game for us to watch.

KURT BUSCH: Absolutely.

PAUL JOHNSON: And then the new product. I assume, that not to get ahead of yourself, and I know you' were out on a limb when you made the prediction, or I think it was a promise, that you would introduce a new product every quarter. But is that -- as your R&D operation continues to execute, I assume your goal is more than one a quarter as we get out. I'm not going to tie you to a time frame, but if that's really going to be the goal of growing it, one a quarter is going to be fine for the next couple of quarters, but I assume you are going to start to raise that bar internally.

KURT BUSCH: I mean, I think, that's typically how you manage any organization, Paul. But, the one new product a quarter is something that we can achieve with current operating expense. And we have plans as we grow revenue to invest in our R&D. And we expect to be able to accelerate the product introductions that we do.

PAUL JOHNSON: Okay. Thank you, appreciate it.

KURT BUSCH: Thank you very much for all of your questions Paul.

OPERATOR: And now I would like to turn the call over to Kurt Busch for closing remarks.

KURT BUSCH: Thank you Operator. I would like to thank you all for participating on today's call. We look forward to updating you on our progress, achievements, and actions, when we report on our fiscal third-quarter results in May.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
lntrcs : Lantronix Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120223e829009nb
  


 HD
 Q4  & Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,684 words
   PD
8 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Time Warner Incorporated fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 earnings conference call. My name is Christine, and I will be your operator for today's conference.

   TD
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note today's conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Doug Shapiro, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin the call.

DOUG SHAPIRO, SVP, IR, TIME WARNER INC.: Thanks. This morning we issued two press releases, one detailing our results in the fourth quarter and full year and the other providing our 2012 business outlook. Before I begin there are two items I need to cover.

First, we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules. These reconciliations are available on our website at TimeWarner.com/investors. Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our site.

And, second, today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors. These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Time Warner is under no obligation and, in fact, expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Thank you, and I will turn the call over to Jeff.

JEFF BEWKES, CHAIRMAN, CEO, TIME WARNER INC.: Good morning, and thanks for listening in. We had a great fourth quarter, capping another great year. In 2011 we grew revenue 8%. That is our highest rate since 2003. We grew adjusted operating income 9%. And we grew adjusted earnings per share 20%, exceeding our guidance. In fact, we have more than doubled our adjusted EPS over the last three years.

We had a strong year operationally too. We not only maintained our leading position across almost all of our businesses, in most cases we took share. We're at the vanguard of the industry in advancing the next generation of digital business models, and we expanded our international presence.

At the same time, we significantly increased our returns to shareholders. We directed $5.6 billion to dividends and to stock repurchases, buying back 12% of our shares in just one year.

And in 2012 we plan to keep the momentum going. We will drive to deliver double-digit growth in adjusted EPS again. And we also just raised our heir dividend by 11% and announced a new $4 billion repurchase authorization.

We intend to achieve our financial goals while remaining as focused as ever on our key strategic priorities. First, invest aggressively to create and acquire the best content. Second, accelerate new business models that harness technology to improve the consumer experience, but in a way that supports our economics. Third, expand internationally in key territories. And, fourth, continuously work to improve both our operating and our capital efficiency.

Let me tell you how we are pursuing these objectives at each of our divisions in 2012, starting with Networks. At Turner we will keep ratcheting up our investment in content as we seek the optimal mix of sports, originals and acquired programming.

For instance, 2011 was the first year of our 14-year agreement to air the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament with CBS. It outperformed our expectations on every count in 2011 -- viewership, digital metrics, sponsorships and ad revenue. The 2012 tournament is just around the corner, and we're very pleased with advertiser demand as we head into the tournament.

We are also excited to have the NBA back on TNT. We have seen extremely strong ratings so far, and every indication is that the lockout did not diminish fans' enthusiasm at all.

For 2012 we will increase investment in original programming again. At TNT we will bring back some of the biggest shows on ad-supported cable, like the final season of The Closer, the next season of Rizzoli & Isles, and the number one new drama on cable last year, Falling Skies.

Starting this summer we will debut several new shows, including our highly anticipated reboot of Dallas, as well as Major Crimes, Perception and The Great Escape.

You will also see more original programming on the TBS primetime lineup later this year. And in 2012 we will build on the momentum of our original programming at truTV and on Adult Swim. Both of these networks are coming off record years for viewership.

And, last but not least, we expect another strong year at CNN. In 2011 CNN was up more than 20% in its key demo, driven by the news cycle and by our programming moves over the past year. That momentum should serve CNN very well as we head into an election year.

We are refreshing our acquired programming on TBS and TNT in 2012 also, particularly in the key primetime period. Primetime and sports is where our entertainment networks generate the highest volumes and the highest pricing.

In October we put The Big Bang Theory into its regular spot on the TBS primetime schedule and it has been a runaway hit. It drove a big ratings improvement across the whole network in the fourth quarter and that momentum is continuing.

In January TBS was up 30% in primetime, posting its highest ratings ever and making it the number one entertainment network on cable. At HBO in 2012 we will bring back the biggest hits on premium TV. In their most recent season True Blood attracted 13 million viewers per episode. Game of Thrones attracted 9 million and Boardwalk Empire attracted 8 million. Considering HBO is in 28 million homes that kind of share is unmatched anywhere on television. In HBO homes those are 30s and 40s.

We are also excited about several new shows on HBO. Two weeks ago we premiered Luck, a new show from David Milch and Michael Mann, starring Dustin Hoffman, which has received fantastic critical reviews. And later this year we will debut the Newsroom from Aaron Sorkin, and a host of other new shows.

We also will expand the slate of original shows on Cinemax this year. In 2012 our networks will continue to be at the forefront of TV Everywhere. Two years ago TV Everywhere, or what many call authentication, was only an idea with no technology underlying it and no industry support. It has come a long way. Today authenticated TV has been embraced by every major distributor and program.

Until now we have been chiefly focused on availability of TV Everywhere. Now it is time for the whole industry to drive consumer awareness and consumer usage.

To really excite consumers we think TV Everywhere needs to be easy -- easy to access and easy to use. It needs to offer a robust amount of content for every network and it needs to be on multiple devices, including connected televisions.

HBO GO is a great example. It has millions of active users. Consumer satisfaction scores are through the roof and we're seeing a big increase in the monthly viewing. And that is before we have a meaningful presence for these apps on everybody's television set, and that will happen soon.

During the fourth quarter we signed agreements at HBO with both Time Warner Cable and Cablevision that will bring availability of HBO GO and MAX GO to essentially all of HBO's domestic subbase. And the HBO GO app will soon be available on the Xbox. And we will continue to roll out apps for more connected devices throughout the year.

At Turner we are now making almost 1,000 hours of on-demand TV Everywhere content and live feeds of CNN and Headline News available to almost 80 million homes. We have rolled out apps for all our major networks, and in 2012 we will add more content and support more devices, including connected TVs.

Our networks are also growing at a rapid clip internationally. At Turner our international operations grew to 20% of revenue in 2011. That is up from 18% in 2010. We saw very strong performance in Latin America in particular, where we are now the largest provider of multichannel TV networks. We experienced very strong growth internationally at HBO2, including our joint venture (technical difficulty) in Latin America and Asia. Both subscribers and revenue increased well over 20% in 2011.

In 2012 HBO will launch new premium networks in several territories, including HBO Netherlands this week. We will increase international local production and roll out new features at our international networks like high-def and on-demand.

We have now launched HBO GO as an authenticated service in eight countries. And this year we are shooting to complete our rollout across Central Europe and across Latin America. When including HBO Latin America and HBO Asia, our combined international network businesses at Turner and HBO generated over $3 billion of revenue and over $650 million of adjusted operating income in 2011. And as we told you last year, our goal is to reach $1 billion in operating profits at our international networks by 2014.

I will turn next to Warner Bros., where we will also be investing to press our competitive advantages. Our Film division had another great year in 2011, surpassing $4 billion at the global box office for the third consecutive time. Thanks to successful events films like The Hangover 2, Sherlock Holmes -- A Game of Shadows, which is currently tracking for $0.5 billion in global box, and of course the last Harry Potter.

As I mentioned to you last quarter we expect the Harry Potter franchise to endure long after the last movie release. In December we reached agreements with Universal Studios to expand the Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Orlando and to bring a new attraction to Los Angeles. These deals call for a significant increase in license fees starting in 2014.

We're excited about our event film slate in 2012 too. Just like you, we are eagerly awaiting the premiere of The Dark Knight Rises, which is already selling out midnight IMAX shows in July, and the first installment of The Hobbit coming this year, as well as Dark Shadows from Tim Burton and Johnny Depp, and a movie called Gravity, with George Clooney and Sandra Bullock.

At Warner's television production arm after a terrific 2011 we're ramping up investment again in 2012. We are continuing to see very favorable demand trends. The broadcast and cable networks are increasing investment in original scripted TV. There is strong demand for the biggest hits coming off broadcast into syndication. We are still seeing international license fees climb, even in Europe, and of course, there is new demand from SVOD providers, both here and overseas.

On top of those secular trends Warner's has had a really strong first-half in the 2011/2012 season. We are seeing fantastic performance from a number of our returning shows, including Two And A Half Men, The Big Bang Theory, and Mike & Molly.

And we have several freshman hits such as 2 Broke Girls, Suburgatory, Person of Interest, and Alcatraz. These shows will pay dividends for years to come as they enter the syndication market.

Last year Warner Home Entertainment had another standout year in a very challenging environment. We were number one again across every home entertainment category, and once again grew our share. This performance reflects the advantages of our scale, the demand for our events films, even as consumers have become more selective. And it reflects the benefits of some of the steps we have taken to establish new windows.

In particular, in 2010 we instituted a 28-day window for kiosk and DVD by mail services. That enabled our titles last year to significantly outperform comparable titles released by other studios without a window.

In 2012 we will keep pushing to divine the next generation of business models for home entertainment. As part of that we are using windows to advantage our higher contribution distribution channels. Last month we announced an agreement with Netflix to extend the 28-day window for DVD by mail to 56 days. We will keep working to extend the window for kiosk providers and for brick-and-mortar retailers too.

We are also trying to make digital ownership much more compelling for consumers. That is why we have been a big supporter of UltraViolet. Warner's was the first studio to release UV titles, and Flixster was the first service to allow consumers to access them. All our new releases on DVD and Blu-ray are now UV compatible.

We are looking forward to more studios releasing more UV titles and more retailers supporting the standard over the course of the year. It is certainly early, but the consumer response we have seen so far reinforces how much pent up demand exists for an easy way to manage and access digital movie collections.

Turning to Publishing. Time Inc. continues to be the clear leader in its industry despite a tough environment. In 2011 it took share for the third consecutive year, creating the widest gap over number two competitor in five years.

In 2012 we will remain focused on continuing to grow our share and tightly manage our cost structure. Like our other divisions, Time Inc. is pushing the digital evolution of its businesses more aggressively than any of its competitors.

For instance, we have now launched tablet editions for all our domestic titles. We are convinced that the tablet will offer more value to both our readers and our advertisers. And if the model develops properly, it should enhance traditional magazine economics. That is one reason why I'm thrilled that we were able to bring on Laura Lang as the new Time Inc. CEO. Laura's leadership experience and her knowledge of the intersection of marketing and digital make her the perfect executive to lead that charge.

Next, John will discuss our financial results, including the fourth objective I mentioned earlier, improving our operating and capital efficiency.

Before I hand it off I want to take a step back. We are only two years into our life as a smaller content-focused company. They have been two really good years, but I think our best years are ahead of us. The digital transition is driving higher usage across our businesses and it is increasing the value of the high-quality content that we specialize in.

New opportunities are opening up for us, technologically and geographically. We are focused on being able to capitalize on those opportunities, and we are in a better position than ever to do that. And with that I will turn it over to John.

JOHN MARTIN, EVP, CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER, CFO, TIME WARNER INC.: Thanks, Jeff, and good morning. I'm going to begin by referring to the first slide, which is now available on our website. As we headed into 2011 we discussed with you our plans to be more aggressive in pursuing our goals of investment, growth and returns. We achieved or exceeded our targets on all counts here.

We grew revenues 8%, the highest growth rate since 2003. And we grew adjusted operating income 9% to a record $5.9 billion. That translated to 20% growth in adjusted EPS to $2.89, also the highest amount in the Company's history. And as Jeff mentioned, over the past three years adjusted EPS has now more than doubled.

We achieved these results while investing even more in our businesses to strengthen their competitive position and drive long-term growth. In 2011 we increased investment in programming and production and marketing in the high-single-digits, while reallocating resources away from less productive areas like G&A.

Notwithstanding these significant investments, we are able to maintain very high levels of returns on invested capital. And as the way we look at it which excludes certain purchase price adjustments, our return on invested capital was at about at 20% in 2011. And at the same time we accelerated our direct returns to shareholders, and between dividends and share repurchases we returned $5.6 billion.

In 2012 our goal of once again delivering double-digit adjusted EPS growth reflects confidence in continued growth despite the uncertain economic environment, current volatility and some difficult growth comparisons. And we remain committed to direct returns to shareholders as evidenced by our Board's decision to both increase the dividend by 11% and to authorize a new $4 billion share repurchase program.

Turning to the next slide, I will quickly take you through the quarter, where we had the highest levels of revenue, adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS in the Company's history.

As we expected, the fourth quarter was our strongest. In terms of year-over-year growth in both adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS it was the ninth straight quarter of year-over-year revenue growth, including growth across all sources of revenue.

Adjusted operating income was up 20%, with margins expanding nearly 300 basis points, and adjusted EPS grew 40% year-over-year in the quarter. In addition to the strong growth in adjusted operating income, the EPS growth was helped by having fewer shares outstanding due to our ongoing repurchases as well as a lower tax rate.

So let me turn now to our divisional results, and let me begin with the Networks Group, where the fourth quarter was very strong and it was a strong end to what was a really, really good year.

For the year we grew revenues 9%, with solid revenue growth at both HBO and Turner. And we grew adjusted operating income mid-single-digits, and that is despite the effect of the first year of the NCAA Basketball Tournament.

In the fourth quarter we posted the highest growth in adjusted operating income of any quarter in the year. Advertising revenues grew a modest 2% in the quarter. And that growth was negatively impacted by the NBA lockout, lower scatter demand, and lower ratings at TNT, as well as foreign currency translation.

At our international networks advertising revenue growth was up in the high-single-digits. And that included about a 400 basis point drag from currency translation. We continue to see strong growth in our European and Latin American entertainment businesses. In 2012 advertising growth is tracking somewhere around the mid-single-digits. That reflects positive rating trends at most of our networks, particularly TBS.

Scatter pricing is up solidly over upfront levels, although volume remains relatively behind recent years. Advertising growth also reflects the ratings challenges that I just mentioned at TNT, as well as the lingering effect of the NBA work stoppage.

While the fan and the viewer response to the return of the NBA has been very strong and very encouraging, some of the advertising dollars that are usually spent there were committed elsewhere during the lockout period, and we fully expect that to be a temporary effect that will be resolved by returning to a normal selling cycle.

Moving over to subscription revenues at the networks, which grew 5% in the quarter and 6% for the year. Similar to what we discussed with you last quarter, certain affiliate fee adjustments in the fourth quarter and the prior year reduced growth by about 1 percentage point in the fourth quarter.

Looking over at the content revenue, sales of HBO original programming drove another year of strong growth in 2011. That included the second cycle syndication of Sex and the City and the international licensing of Boardwalk Empire and Game of Thrones.

Looking at HBO's subscriber base for a moment, domestic subscribers increased nearly 200,000 for the year, and that was despite flat multichannel households as well as continued losses at a couple of major domestic affiliates. This year in 2012 we are optimistic that we will see improved trends at each of these distributors.

As Jeff mentioned, we are also really pleased that HBO GO and MAX GO will now be available to nearly all domestic subscribers. And we believe that this will both extend the lifecycle of existing subscribers as well as help attract new subscribers.

HBO also grew its international subscriber base by over 25% to end the year at about 53 million. So the global subscriber base now at HBO is around 93 million subs.

Adjusted operating income at the Networks Group segment increased 27% in the fourth quarter, with margins expanding nearly 600 basis points year-over-year. Growth here was boosted by the timing of programming and marketing expenses, which were down from the fourth quarter of 2010. And for the year programming expenses increased 12%, and we have discussed that with you in the past. Excluding the impact of the NCAA Basketball Tournament underlying programming expenses would have been up in the mid-single-digits, which is right on expectations.

For 2012 we are looking forward to another great year at the Networks Group. We expect healthy subscription revenue growth despite the likelihood that currency is going to be a headwind, particularly in the first half of the year. And while we don't have a crystal ball on advertising, we are cautiously optimistic here. We had a very, very strong 2011/2012 upfront, and advertisers continue to focus their spending on national television.

On the cost side this will be the second year of the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament on our network, so we don't have the same challenging cost growth comparisons that we did a year ago. And while we will keep increasing investment in programming in a controlled way we will fund that in part by limiting growth in non-revenue-generating expenses. So putting that all together we anticipate the Networks Group the profit will grow faster this year in 2012 than it did in 2011.

Let me turn now to film, where Warner Bros. had its best year ever in 2011. Revenues were up 9%. Adjusted operating income grew 16% to a record of nearly $1.3 billion. Warner Bros. had the biggest box office hit and the most successful home video release of the year with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. It also had the biggest syndicated hit on television with Big Bang Theory, which is now the number one comedy in television syndication. And it also had one of the most successful video game releases of the year with Batman - Arkham City.

So 2012 will obviously have difficult comparisons to the record 2011 performance, which may result in lower profits this year compared to last year. Industry home video trends remain challenging; however, we still believe that it is going to be a very strong year at this division.

At the end of 2011, for example, backlog reached around $5.5 billion. And that is the highest year-end level ever, and it is up close to 35% from just three years ago. Backlog is the amount of unrecognized cash licensing revenue for television and theatrical product, and although all of that won't be recognized in 2012, it is an important indicator of future revenue pipeline.

We're also optimistic about our film slate this year, as Jeff described, and we should also have another strong year at the TV studio as well. We are continuing to see strong demand across all end markets -- broadcast, cable, domestic and international syndication, and SVOD. And we will benefit from another solid lineup of the syndication pipeline, which this year includes The Mentalist. So tough comps aside, it should be a great year at Warner Bros.

Over at Publishing, in 2011 Time Inc. posted double-digit profit growth in the quarter and the year. Advertising revenues were flat in the quarter and slightly down for the year. Subscription revenues were also down 2% for both the quarter and the full year. And most of that was due to continued softness at the newsstand, particularly in the celebrity category.

Looking into the first quarter, we're seeing continued softness in both advertising revenues and newsstand sales. Adjusted operating income was up 23% in the quarter with margins up 400 basis points, but much of that growth was due to lower restructuring and severance costs. For the year margins grew 150 basis points, and that is the highest level since 2007.

2012 we continue to expect a challenging revenue environment. And we will be make investments in tablet initiatives, as well as experiencing increased physical cost, like postage or paper, all of that could make profit growth here at this division difficult.

Turning to the next slide, 2012, let me provide some context for the outlook this year. We fully expect to see longer-term secular strength in most of our businesses. Demand for high-quality content is increasing. TV advertising is taking share and international opportunities are expanding. So we're investing aggressively against these significant opportunities, particularly in original programming and our Companywide Content Everywhere strategy.

We will also invest in our enterprise efficiency initiatives, which are focused principally in the areas of real estate and information technology. As part of that drive we anticipate corporate expenses will actually trend somewhat higher this year. We are doing that though with an aim to generate material recurring annual savings over time once these initiatives are fully implemented.

We're also doing all that against the backdrop of what is the uncertain macroeconomic environment, and we expect that there could be some volatility in exchange rate changes. And, in fact, at current rates FX translation could be a drag of about 200 basis points on growth in adjusted operating income in 2012.

We have a lot riding on the success of our film slate this year, although we have said we are very optimistic. And all of this that I just described perhaps makes forecasting a little harder this year than it has been over the past several years. But, nevertheless, we are setting a goal for ourselves, and we expect to post double-digit adjusted EPS growth again this year.

One housekeeping note. As you think about the progression of the quarters, similar to what happened in 2011, keep in mind that we have difficult content comps at Networks in the first quarter, and our film profitability will likely be heavily weighted towards the back half of the year, as it was as I mentioned in 2011, due to the timing of theatrical and home video releases.

Turning now to the next slide, which details free cash flow. 2011 we delivered approximately $2.7 billion. And that was higher than we anticipated when we came into the year, and that was the result of very strong free cash flow generation in the fourth quarter.

In 2012 we expect the conversion ratio of free cash to be in the same range as it was in 2011. Our use of working capital should be somewhat lower than it was in 2011, but we expect that to be somewhat offset by higher cash taxes and higher cash interest, and that is due to the debt that we issued last year.

So let me end with the final slide, which shows a reconciliation of our net debt balance. We ended 2011 with $16 billion in net debt. That was up about $3.2 billion compared to the end of 2010, and it was up about $750 million compared to the third quarter.

Our leverage ratio is now close to our target of 2.5 times. That is up from around 2 times at the end of 2010, and it was the result of an effort to improve our capital structure. We achieved that by spending $5.6 billion on share repurchases and dividends, and that is up 80% from 2010 levels and was more than double our free cash flow generation in 2011. We also spent a little under $400 million on M&A actions.

In addition, we took advantage of market conditions last year to strengthen our balance sheet by raising long-term debt and amending our $5 billion revolving bank credit facility, which reduced annual cost and extended terms.

So if you look back over the past three years, the approach that we have taken has really been one of balance and consistency. And since 2008 we have generated around $8 billion in free cash flow. We have paid out close to $3 billion in dividends. We have repurchased almost $8 billion of our shares or 20% of the base. And we made $2 billion worth of acquisitions. At the same time, we remained very, very focused on maintaining our balance sheet strength and retaining flexibility.

This year our philosophy of capital deployment will not change. We're going to continue to look for the right balance between maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet, while actively deploying our capital to invest in our businesses, make acquisitions and deliver returns to shareholders.

We continue to believe that a target leverage of 2.5 times is the level that best balances all of these aims and goals. So you could see from our continued commitment to direct returns and the Board's decision to increase the dividend and authorize the new share repurchase program.

But now that we have reached the target leverage, the excess capital that we are going to deploy will be primarily determined by the growth in our businesses and our free cash flow generation, so as of now we expect buyback levels in 2012 to be lower than they were in 2011.

Now let me turn the call back over to Doug to begin the Q&A portion of this phone call. Thank you very much.

DOUG SHAPIRO: Thanks, John. Christine, can we get the Q&A started. And I would ask everyone to please limit themselves to only one or two questions, so we can get to as many people as possible. Thank you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Spencer Wang, Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I have one for Jeff and one for John. Jeff, on some of the new technology initiatives I was wondering with HBO GO if you have seen that help the churn numbers, and if so, if you could maybe quantify that? And on UltraViolet, would you consider an earlier UltraViolet window to stimulate UV sales?

And then, secondly, for John, I know cable networks you said the margins sounds like they will be up year-over-year. Should we expect programming cost growth though then to be around mid-single-digits? Thank you.

JEFF BEWKES: I think your first question was HBO churn.

SPENCER WANG: Right, from HBO (multiple speakers), the impact of GO, yes.

JEFF BEWKES: Impact of GO. We're really happy with the user data and the satisfaction levels that we are getting. The subs really like it. Viewership is up a fair amount in the homes that are using GO. It is pretty early to tell exactly what that will do mathematically to the churn across the base, so we expect it will be some time before we start to get a real sense of that.

But GO basically -- it obviously makes it easy to watch HBO. It brings new subs in and extends the life of existing subs. So it is going to be an increasing net positive. Think of it really as what we have already seen at HBO over the years on video on demand, which raised the viewing and helped stabilize the sub base, the same thing with GO.

And then what should make that even more powerful is when more and more affiliates put HBO GO across all devices. There has been a little friction and not as much speed as we would like in having all our subscribers to HBO get GO on every kind of device.

On the early window for electronic sell-through, we are evolving the windows all the time. And as you know, we have had some efforts on rental, which are more like tests. The powerful thing would be to have lots of tests or electronic sell-through start earlier. And one of the issues for that is really the security of the television. And as the ability to secure the early release gets more -- we get more confident in that, I think that the whole industry will move towards earlier sell-through.

But we don't see any reason that has or will cannibalize theatrical. And we think it can fit in correctly with the current retail distribution and system that you have for physical.

JOHN MARTIN: It is John. Your question regarding programming cost and network margins, for 2012 I think it is going to be pretty consistent with what we have done over the past three to five years. Think about programming cost increases going up in a controlled way mid- to high-single-digits. Remember, it is an election year and we will spend a little bit more at CNN for newsgathering costs. There will be an increased investment in original programming to try to take advantage of our lead positions.

And, like we have done in the past, we are going to continue to shoot for all other cost at the Networks division, including marketing, SG&A, overhead, other back-office related costs, those are going to grow at a much slower rate. So those will grow sort of low to mid. So at a combined basis overall expense growth should be mid-single-digits, and we would anticipate margin improvement.

SPENCER WANG: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Richard Greenfield, BTIG Research.

RICHARD GREENFIELD, ANALYST, BTIG RESEARCH: I wanted to follow up on the last question, because I think it is important. When you look at the goal of getting TV Everywhere to the television, some of your biggest distributors like Comcast, Time Warner Cable and DirecTV have all decided that HBO GO isn't going to be accessible for right now on devices like the Roku, and it is unclear what they will or won't allow in the future. They seem to cite customer data retention or viewership information as an issue here.

I am just wondering if you could give us your sense of how this gets worked out and how the industry is going to get comfortable with this, because it seems like getting to a television is what has made Netflix so successful, and it seems what will really drive HBO GO's success as well as other of your TV Everywhere platforms.

And then just a quick follow-up. In the press release you cite licensing profits from Turner for both Q4 and 2011 drivers. Could you just give us a little sense in what was in there? Thanks.

JEFF BEWKES: I am glad you asked both of those. So let's go to the first one. Frankly, I don't understand the reticence of distributors to authenticate on third-party sites like Roku and get HBO and TNT and all those channels to television.

As a general principle, we as an industry should be making viewers have availability with on-demand TV of all their favorite networks on any platform, any device that they want to use.

And what is powerful about it, and I think it is in your question, is that by authenticating TV Everywhere on basically whatever network you like, on all voices and platforms, cable operators would be making the video subscription they sell to consumers enormously more valuable. They would therefore make it much less likely that a consumer would cut the cord. They would basically bring on stream all those younger people that are wondering whether they're going to ever subscribe to cable.

So by providing ubiquitous access to TV channels on demand, they would diminish the relative value of over the top services or SVOD services that are really nothing more than the same programming offered on demand in a later window.

So that as an industry, and I'm speaking now for all our networks, we have got great, fresh, really popular programming. We ought to make it available to our viewers on all their devices, on demand, as easily as we can at no extra charge.

All the -- you know, that is how you fulfill the promise of your brands and of television to viewers. And I'm hopeful that the industry will move pretty quickly past some of its -- I think there are more minor concerns that they have, and they ought to speed up.

JOHN MARTIN: It is John. On your licensing revenue question, I think that the press release highlights the content revenues from HBO and licensing from Turner. It is really normal course of business type of stuff. There is nothing notable in there. It is the type of licensing revenues that we generate on an annual recurring basis from Cartoon Network, merchandising and licensing of our properties there, as well as some NCAA stuff.

RICHARD GREENFIELD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jessica Reif Cohen, Bank of America.

JESSICA REIF COHEN, - MERRILL LYNCH - ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: I have two questions. One, John, I just wanted a review of what is in the guidance (technical difficulty) really quickly. I think you said you're cautiously optimistic regarding advertising, and I was wondering if you could just maybe size it? Does that mean mid-single-digits or high-single-digits affiliate fees? It kind of sounded like mid to high.

And then what is -- do you encompass like SVOD deals -- well, SVOD deals for Warner Bros. in that guidance?

And the second question, Jeff -- I'm sorry -- Jeff said there would be meaningful increase in Harry Potter license fee for the -- beginning in 2014. I am just wondering if you could size that how meaningful of an increase? And what is your share or what is your split with J.K. Rowling? Thank you.

JOHN MARTIN: I will start. Look, on the guidance, we are not going to give specific forward-looking guidance on a line-by-line basis. And my cautious optimism I think is a reflection of the fact that we are planning to see an acceleration from Q4 to Q1 as it relates to ad revenue. We are seeing scatter pricing up nicely over upfront pricing levels. And the upfront, as I mentioned, we were up low-double-digits in pricing. The volume has been a little bit light. And certain categories such as packaged goods have been a little bit light.

So there are some mixed signals there, but we have got ratings momentum at most of our networks, which we are actually quite pleased about. And it is not just TBS -- it is Cartoon Network, which has been up nicely, it is CNN, it is truTV. And we're optimistic that TNT's ratings are going to improve as we progress through this year.

On the subscription revenue side, which has been an amazingly consistent revenue line for us -- the networks, where we have got about $8.2 billion of annual revenues, I think what we have said in the past continues to hold true, which is that we are experiencing about mid-single-digit pricing increases across the board.

In part, the subscriber revenue levels will depend on whether we get unit growth, particularly in the US, because we anticipate getting unit growth outside of the US. And then FX, which FX over the last several months has moved around quite a bit. Right now it looks like it is a drab, but who knows what happens going forward.

But the fundamentals of the subscription revenue growth is still very strong. And we did experience the high-single-digit growth at Turner a year ago that we predicted. And we think for the sustainable future it is going to be a strong revenue generation source for us. And remember, all of this is before we see a meaningful acceleration from the NCAA.

As it relates to SVOD deals, I'm not going to be specific. We had in 2011 -- I think I might have mentioned on the last quarter's call, we had revenues recognized in the fourth quarter that were -- that was a little north of $100 million. And from the deals we have announced we expect at least that same level in 2012.

But we have got numerous discussions occurring with multiple SVOD providers. And what is very clear is there is a fair bit of demand out there. And, frankly, Warner Bros. has the deepest, richest, and broadest library of both films and TV shows. So we're quite confident in our ability to monetize that in a value accretive way going forward.

JEFF BEWKES: Let me just add, John just said it, Warner has 6,000 films and over 75,000 TV episodes, so we're feeling pretty good about that situation.

I think you asked about Harry Potter parks, if I understood the question. And we're really excited about the new agreement that we have with Universal. It is a great example of how Harry Potter is going to live on and be vibrant in coming years. It is going to include taking the Wizarding World of Harry Potter to Universal Los Angeles, and we're going to expand the wildly successful gate in Orlando.

We think it really is promising. It highlights the power of Harry Potter and really of any great franchise. And we will start -- and I think this goes to your question -- to recognize the revenue from that once the park opens, so that is a few years off.

I shouldn't forget we are also opening up the Making of Harry Potter this March at our studio outside of London. And there are many other international theme park locations you are all well aware of, all of which represent big opportunities for Harry Potter. But we don't -- we are not ready to announce those yet.

OPERATOR: Michael Nathanson, Nomura Securities.

MICHAEL NATHANSON, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: I have a couple of housekeeping questions for John. So, John, on affiliate fees in Networks can you give us the detail between in this quarter domestic affiliate fee growth and international? Because you gave it for advertising, I want to get it for affiliate fee growth.

JOHN MARTIN: Let's start with the bigger picture and then we will drill down. So affiliate fees in the fourth quarter grew about 5% at the networks. And that was -- I think as I had mentioned in my proactive remarks, held back about 100 basis points or so from some what I would call ordinary types of adjustments that would have occurred at HBO, and FX as well. Thanks Doug.

In addition -- so if you look at the break out between domestic and international, we saw domestic affiliate fee growth of around 4%, and international was about 3 times that.

If you look, though, more broadly over the year, which I think is a more relevant barometer than any one particular quarter, basically our international growth is growing at about twice the level as our domestic growth. And I think it pretty much holds true that if you looked at -- we grew affiliate revenue about 6.5% at the networks, and that was about 5% -- a little more -- around 5% domestic, and then international was high-teens.

And then averaged out over all as I said on the ad side, international growing much faster than domestic and around twice the level.

MICHAEL NATHANSON: Then, John, on cash flow you gave us a lot of detail. If you look at your slide 11, something that jumped out at us was just the difference between cash interest and P&L interest and the cash taxes and the P&L taxes. And the question would be is at what point do those two things narrow? Do you start booking cash at the P&L rates for taxes and interest? So what is going on there?

JOHN MARTIN: It is really timing. I wouldn't look too much -- that much into it. One of the reasons why we think cash taxes are going to go up in 2012 as compared to 2011 is because of the timing of when the payments occur. So it benefited us a little in 2011. We will have to deal with higher levels in 2012, but we're also going to grow the underlying free cash flow from operations in 2012.

But it is one of the reasons why, as we talk about 2012 free cash flow, we are anticipating our conversion rate of operating income and EBITDA to be roughly constant as compared to 2011.

And some of you may remember that we had been projecting that free cash flow conversion levels would accelerate in 2012 versus 2011. I would just remind you that our free cash flow actually came in higher in 2011 than we were anticipating. So as a result of that flat conversions still at very strong levels, but it is basically growth in operating income being somewhat offset by growth in interest because of higher net debt levels and growth in taxes.

MICHAEL NATHANSON: Okay, thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Alexia Quadrani, JPMorgan.

ALEXIA QUADRANI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I know you are in the early stages of monetizing your NCAA affiliate deals, can you give us an update on how the conversations are going? And do you think these conversations imply that you could see an acceleration in affiliate fee growth beginning in 2013?

JEFF BEWKES: We are really confident on what is going to happen on the affiliate side because of that deal. We have already signed some deals and we are getting more -- well, we're getting the value we saw.

I am also -- we are also having pretty constructive conversations with other affiliates beyond the ones we have already done. Basically, we are above the levels that we want and aim to be at in order to go and make this programming investment. So we are even more confident now than when we signed that this is going to be very profitable for us.

We're not going to get into the exact timing of when the effects of this hit affiliate rates. It won't be as much in 2012 and 2013 as it will be in later years, and it is going to be very significant.

ALEXIA QUADRANI: You mentioned some softness in the volume in the overall advertising market in the first quarter, even though scatter is obviously up nicely over the upfront levels. Have those verticals that have pulled back or staying a little bit, are you seeing any abnormal activity in terms of cancellation of commitments for the June quarter maybe from those verticals or just in general?

JOHN MARTIN: Is John. The answer is no in terms of abnormality. We are seeing cancellation levels in Q2 at or about the same level as we have seen in each of the last three years. And in terms of verticals, I think as I mentioned -- I think in answer to an earlier question, we have seen some pull back from global packaged goods companies. We have also seen a little bit of softness in some other categories that you wouldn't ordinarily think of, and we think it may be more due to timing than anything else. But there has been some softness in media spending and some softness in movie studio spending, but that could be more product-specific as opposed to anything secular, or cyclical there rather.

So we are not setting off the alarm bells here in anyway. I don't want to misguide you in terms of -- but it is just early days and we're in the middle of February, and so we just feel like being cautiously optimistic at this point is a prudent way to approach the year.

ALEXIA QUADRANI: All right, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Doug Mitchelson, Deutsche Bank.

DOUG MITCHELSON, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: So for Jeff, you mentioned expansion in key international territories as a core goal this year. So I was just hoping if he would provide more specifics around which territories would be considered key territories and what expansion could entail?

I guess where we're trying to go here is trying to understand the potential size of acquisitions looking forward and whether the $1 billion guidance for international 2014 EBIT includes -- is organic from here or it includes likely acquisitions. Thanks.

JEFF BEWKES: We think we can hit those goals with organic growth of what we have already got. Just to give you a little more flavor, we grew revenues double-digits around 14% in 2011. And that is despite the exposure to more mature businesses, such as home entertainment and publishing. And we're seeing even better growth than that at the networks. As you know, John said this, we grew the revenue there more than 25%.

The secular trends overseas for networks are stronger than the US. We are seeing particularly strong growth in Latin America. We did well over $1 billion across the Company there this year.

And as we go to the cable network side, we think it is going to be a very key, steady and reasonably fast growing part of the business. I think we said it already on the call -- the $650 million of adjusted OI that you just referred to. And we think that that is going to hit $1 billion in the next few years just on organic growth.

The areas where we have been focused -- to the answer, I think you asked it geographically, are Latin America, Eastern Europe. We put some effort into India. It hasn't worked very well so far, but we continue to look at that pretty hard. And that is where we are going, and we're going to build on our position.

Our margins, just to go to that part, are reasonably strong in Latin America. They're not as high as US domestic levels, but it shows you as you go through the world in our network business that you're going to have strong margins heading towards US levels as the markets in which we are operating develop, so Latin America first, Eastern Europe next, and then South Asia after that.

DOUG MITCHELSON: All right, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente, Barclays.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: I was enjoying the narrative from Jeff on -- more strategically on content and distribution. I'm just wondering where Apple fits in. I think -- I mean, it is hard to deny Apple has just become a tremendous force in terms of media consumption. Is Apple good for Time Warner and the content companies? Where do you see them fitting in terms of distribution of your content? Thanks.

JEFF BEWKES: Yes, Apple is great for Time Warner. It is great for sales. It is great for networks. It is great for magazines. Remember, all our -- basically what happens when you have great interface devices like Apple, and you can say the same thing for Facebook, is that you have better opportunities for consumers to read or watch our TV, our movies and our magazines.

And what you have seen, and there has I think been confusion out there over the last couple of years, is when you look at strong brands, hit titles, movies, TV shows, magazines like People, all the viewing when you give people choice goes to the hit titles, the newest things.

And what we're doing, which we have set it over and over, I am sorry to have to say it again, we're making our hit shows, movies and magazines available to our engaged readers and viewers exactly how they want it for no extra cost in a way that is really even more engaging than how they used to get what they read or what they watched.

So what you have -- not just Apple, but all these technological advances just make the programming and the magazines more valuable. And we think we have a model that appeals greatly to consumers. It is really a proven model. There is no reason it can't succeed wildly, and I think you're really seeing that happen now.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Does that stay true if Apple -- there has been talk that Apple television -- and Apple television will be introduced. So if the consumer increasingly actually uses Apple as the primary interface for content consumption, does that change or create risk to the affiliate model or do you hold by your comments here? I'm just trying to figure that out in my mind. Thanks.

JEFF BEWKES: An Apple screen is a television. So if you like your Sony TV at home or your Samsung TV on the wall or your Apple iPod sitting in your lap, they're all televisions and our shows are all on them and you can get them all whatever you want for no extra charge.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Jason Bazinet, Citi.

JASON BAZINET, ANALYST, CITI: I just had two quick ones. I think there was a difference between net income and adjusted net income of about $173 million in the quarter, reflecting the write-down of CETV, which I assume is just a mark-to-market gain.

Has anything changed in terms of your view of the strategic value of the asset, sort of holding aside the vagaries of the market?

Then my second question is -- and I may be reading something into this that is meaningless, but your definition of adjusted EPS seemed to include some incremental items related to pension plan curtailments. Is that meaningful at all?

JEFF BEWKES: The good news is I can give the pension plan accounting. Obviously that is just an accounting. It hasn't changed in our view. We are very optimistic about CME investment in that market. And it is simply just the stock market there -- for all companies there and we have to mark-to-market on that.

JASON BAZINET: But you still like the asset?

JOHN MARTIN: Yes.

JOHN MARTIN: It is John. Regarding the change in the definition, there is really nothing there, other than periodically we go and review the definition and try to figure out whether there are other potential things that could happen that really aren't indicative of our ordinary course of business or normal business actions. But it is not significant at all. In fact, if you look back there is nothing really in history that would have captured or fallen into this definition.

So if you -- so it doesn't change the base of EPS with which we are going to compare our future performance against for 2011. So that is the first point I would make.

And the second point I would make, and I just want to be clear on this, we are not considering doing anything at this point either. So I don't want to foreshadow something that we're going to do and we're trying to get ahead of it by changing the definition. That is not the case at all. It is just that periodically we evaluate the benefit plans that we have and we could make adjustments if we determine that they are in the best interest of the Company. So that is all.

JASON BAZINET: Understood.

JOHN MARTIN: It is immaterial. It is virtually nothing going backwards.

JASON BAZINET: Okay, very good. Thank you.

JOHN MARTIN: Thanks for the question. Sorry if I confused anybody.

JASON BAZINET: No, it's okay.

DOUG SHAPIRO: All right, thanks a lot. Christine, I think with that we are at the bottom of the hour, it is probably a good time to cut it off. But, thank you everybody for listening in.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
amronl : Time Warner Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | imed : Media
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gmovie : Movies | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
orla : Orlando | usa : United States | namz : North America | usfl : Florida | uss : Southern U.S.
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120222e8280063h
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Glu Mobile Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,654 words
   PD
7 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good afternoon. My name is Misty and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Glu Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Mr. Greg Cannon, Vice President of Finance, you may begin your conference.

   TD
GREG CANNON, VP FINANCE, GLU MOBILE INC.: Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on the Glu Mobile fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results conference call. This is Greg Cannon, VP Finance from Glu Mobile. On the call today, we have our CEO Niccolo de Masi and CFO Eric Ludwig.

During the course of this call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of the Company. Generally, these statements are identified by the use of the words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, and other words that denote future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We caution you to consider the important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in the press release and in this conference call. These risk factors are described in our press release and are more fully detailed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 14th, 2011.

During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP measures exclude the change in deferred revenues and royalties, amortization of in-process development contracts, amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation charges, restructuring charges, changes in the fair value of the Blammo earn out, transitional costs, and foreign currency gains and losses primarily related to revaluation of assets and liabilities. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from, a substitute for, or superior to our GAAP results and we encourage investors to consider all measures before making an investment decision.

For complete information regarding our non-GAAP financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and a quantitative reconciliation of those figures, please refer to today's press release regarding our fourth quarter and full year results. The press release has also been furnished to the SEC as part of a Form 8-K.

In addition, please note that the date of this conference call is February 7th, 2012, and any forward-looking statements that we may make today are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable as of this date. We undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of future events.

Lastly, this conference call is the property of Glu Mobile and any recording, reproduction, or rebroadcast of this conference call without the expressed written permission of Glu is strictly prohibited.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Niccolo. Niccolo?

NICCOLO DE MASI, PRESIDENT, CEO, GLU MOBILE INC.: Good afternoon and a warm welcome to everyone joining us today. Before I begin, allow me to direct you to the supplemental presentation accompanying today's earnings. It can be accessed via our investor website, www.glu.com\investors.

For the first time, we've included ARPDAU information on two of our largest titles. In addition to the presentation, you will find video demos of our Q1 2012 titles.

I am delighted to announce that in Q4 2011 we delivered $15 million of non-GAAP smartphone revenues. This was substantially ahead of expectations, representing 340% growth from the same period last year and 42% growth quarter on quarter.

Having crossed over and become a majority smartphone revenue business in Q2 '11, I am pleased to report that our progress accelerated in Q4 '11 with 75% of total non-GAAP revenues being derived from smartphones.

Underpinning these strong results is holiday seasonality, an extra week of Apple calendar revenue, and a number of successful new title launches; Contract Killer Zombies, Blood & Glory, Frontline Commando and Stardom.

We finished 2011 with 20 new titles launched, 8 of which we consider successful. Strong holiday seasonality and advertising revenues as well as a Glu record for new title launches in a single quarter bolstered Q4 non-GAAP smartphone revenues.

We were pleased with Stardom, which was the first title from our newly-acquired Blammo game studio, launched ahead of plan and is performing at expectations. We anticipate the first titles from our Griptonite acquisition to be live a few weeks ahead of plan in March.

Our progress in Q4 has validated our product strategy and highlighted the barriers to entry around our business. We believe Glu has established a clear lead in combining freemium social accessibility with console-quality game play and production values.

Android revenues grew in line with total smartphone revenues to remain approximately 30% of total freemium revenues in Q4. Glu is arguably the leading gaming company on the Android market, with typically 6 to 8 titles in the top 100 grossing on any given day. Android devices are now being activated at a higher average daily rate than iOS. Whilst increasing fragmentation, we believe Glu to benefit long term from initiatives such as Ice Cream Sandwich and Amazon's Kindle Fire.

Despite launching our Q4 products simultaneously on Android and iOS, we still foresee the majority of 2012 smartphone revenues coming from the iOS ecosystems, which is now expanding aggressively in Asia. We also do not see our percentage of smartphone revenues derived from Android increasing significantly in the medium term.

In addition to supporting our persistent successes from 2011, in 2012 we expect to launch in excess of 20 new titles. To this end, our Q1 lineup includes Rogue Racing, Lil' Dungeon, Deer Hunter Reloaded, Small Street, and Samurai vs. Zombies.

We are, of course, aiming to increase our batting percentage in 2012. However, we have noticed that with increasing competition in the Apple App Store, the periods of time during which titles maintain their peak revenue are beginning to shorten. We expect this trend to increase Glu's scale and production value advantages over the long term. However, it may dampen near-term growth.

A significant portion of our poorest performing 2011 titles were from our gPartners program. To allow us to raise our quality bar still higher in H2 2012 and to avoid educating potential competition, we have scaled back our gPartners program and focused our best talent fully on internal studio projects. As with Blammo Games, we leave the door open to exceptional partnership opportunities with potential to become strategic.

We finished 2011 debt free with a net cash balance over $32 million. We continue to be comfortable that our strong balance sheet provides us with the head room to forward invest in iOS and Android with our expanded product capacity. We anticipate this allowing us to deliver circa 70% non-GAAP smartphone revenue growth from full year 2011 to full year 2012. This equates to delivering over $70 million in non-GAAP smartphone revenues this year.

Glu expects to break even on an adjusted EBITDA basis once the new product cycle from our acquisitions is fully active in Q4 2012. We anticipate reaching profitability without needing to access additional capital and with a net cash balance in the double-digit millions.

Q4 2011 capped off the fifth quarter of strong smartphone revenue growth, transforming Glu substantively year on year. We believe that our strategy is clearly succeeding as we delivered 86% of Q4 '11 smartphone revenues through Glu original IP. 2011 is indeed our first full year with the majority of Glu revenues derived from smartphones. We believe the continual rapid evolution in mobile hardware power will only increase consumer demand for Glu's differentiated thick client gaming approach. We consider ourselves uniquely well positioned as these trends accelerate in 2012.

I will now hand you over to Eric Ludwig for analysis of our financial results and operating metrics.

ERIC LUDWIG, CFO, SVP, GLU MOBILE INC.: Thank you, Niccolo. I am very pleased with the results for the fourth quarter of 2011, which were ahead of our expectations and represented a strong finish of the year. I will first provide some details on the Company's financial results for the fourth quarter as well as certain operating metrics. I will conclude by reviewing our outlook for the first quarter and full-year 2012.

Our financial outperformance in the fourth quarter was driven by the combination of several successful new title launches as well as continued strong performance from our existing titles. In tandem, this led to 66% quarter-over-quarter growth in non-GAAP freemium smartphone revenues.

Summarizing some of our key financial highlights for the fourth quarter of 2011, total non-GAAP smartphone revenue of $15 million was up 340% on a year-over-year basis and exceeded our guidance range of $11.5 million to $12 million. As a result, non-GAAP smartphone revenue accounted for 75% of total non-GAAP revenues, up from 59% in the prior quarter.

Original IP accounted for 68% of our total non-GAAP revenues, up from 53% in the third quarter of 2011 and 26% in the fourth quarter of last year, reflecting our continuing shift to original content. More importantly, original IP was 86% of non-GAAP smartphone revenues in the fourth quarter due to all but one title in 2011 being original IP titles.

Our daily active users in the month of December 2011 were 2.9 million users while our monthly active users in December 2011 were 31.4 million. The growth in MAU and DAU is due to 44.7 million downloads of our titles on Apple, Android, and other platforms during the fourth quarter. Our cumulative downloads are now at 176.1 million.

Q4 non-GAAP operating expenses of $18.6 million were favorable as compared to our guidance. Our non-GAAP operating loss for the fourth quarter was $1.2 million, significantly lower than our guidance of a loss of $5.7 million to $6.6 million and non-GAAP loss of $0.02 per basic share was favorable to our guidance of a loss of $0.10 to $0.12 per basic share.

Lastly, we ended 2011 with $32.2 million in cash on our balance sheet, which was above our expectation of approximately $29 million. The over performance was due to our strong Q4 results.

Let's take a moment to drill down on the fourth quarter revenues and highlight how we delivered against our guidance. During the fourth quarter, total non-GAAP revenue was $20.1 million, which exceeded our guidance range of $16 million to $17 million and was up 29% from the same period last year. The growth was driven by the increase in non-GAAP smartphone revenues, which grew 340% year over year to $15 million, and was above the high end of the guidance of $12 million.

This strong year-over-year and sequential growth in smartphone revenues reflects the success of our fourth quarter releases, specifically Contract Killer Zombies, Blood & Glory, Frontline Commando and Stardom, which launched at varying times throughout the quarter; CKZ that launched in the middle of October; Blood & Glory, the middle of November; and Frontline Commando and Stardom had a much smaller contribution as they launched in the middle of December. We were also supported by our most successful, persistent catalog titles with Gun Bros, Contract Killer, Big Time Gangsta, Eternity Warriors and Bug Village all contributing materially as well.

I'm continually asked by investors and analysts for data about the useful lives and revenue of a successful, persistent premium mobile game. Given that our first premium title, Gun Bros, launched at the very end of October 2010, we do not have multi years of history. However, to help frame this, I wanted to provide a few data points on several of our successful titles.

The 5 most successful titles we launched pre-Q4 2011 collectively accounted for $6.2 million or 42% of our Q4 2011 non-GAAP smartphone revenues, thus highlighting the persistent nature of our original IP titles. Specifically, Gun Bros is our longest-running premium title and our most successful on the lifetime to date basis. This title has generated $7.9 million since launch and more impressively continues to generate meaningful revenue even 14 months later. In Q3 2011, Gun Bros generated $1.5 million and in the fourth quarter of 2011 it generated $1.4 million.

In the fourth quarter, the other pre-Q4 2011 persistent titles also contributed to the strong results as Contract Killer generated $1.9 million, $1.2 million for Big Time Gangsta, $1 million for Eternity Warriors, and approximately $700,000 for Bug Village.

In addition, our fourth quarter new title launches collectively generated $6.1 million or 41% of our fourth quarter non-GAAP smartphone revenue. Our successful titles are monetizing at rates of $0.04 to $0.05 per daily active user per day or ARPDAU. Our supplemental presentation as Niccolo mentioned provides some details on two specific titles.

Having reviewed smartphone revenue trends and fundamentals, I will now provide additional segmental data on our non-GAAP smartphone revenue. Our non-GAAP smartphone revenue by platform for the fourth quarter of 2011 was 65% on the Apple platform, up from 47% in the third quarter and 62% from the fourth quarter of 2010. Revenue on Android was 29%, down from 34% in the quarter but up approximately $700,000 in absolute dollars. On a year-over-year basis, Android is growing -- has grown significantly from approximately $200,000 in revenue in the fourth quarter of 2010 to $4.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.

Our fourth quarter revenues benefited from an additional $660,000 associated with a longer Apple reporting calendar. This was a one-off item. It will not repeat itself in any of the quarters in 2012. Our non-GAAP freemium smartphone revenues increased to $13.5 million in Q4 2011 from $8.1 million in Q3 2011 and $1.3 million in Q4 of last year. Non-GAAP freemium smartphone revenues accounted for 90% of our total non-GAAP smartphone revenue during Q4, up from 77% in Q3 and 38% in the fourth quarter of last year.

During the fourth quarter of 2011, we had 1,522,000 in-app purchased billable transactions, which was an increase from 866,000 in the third quarter of this year. The average revenue per in-app purchase transaction decreased from $6.40 in Q3 to $5.79 in Q4. This is due mainly to special promotions for our virtual goods, which increased the volume of purchases and overall revenue but at a slightly lower ASP.

Our legacy featurephone business declined 30% quarter over quarter and 58% over the fourth quarter a year ago, both on a non-GAAP basis and consistent with our guidance. Our featurephone revenues now accounts for only 25% of total non-GAAP revenue. The 2.2 million quarter-to-quarter decline was not surprising. It reflects the combination of fewer featurephone shipments in North American and EMEA as well as our specific lack of focus on games for these devices.

Our legacy featurephone business, which has been in decline as expected, is dominated by branded IP titles. Our freemium smartphone titles have virtually all been original Glu titles. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the contributions from original IP to revenue continued to expand as the percentage increased to 68% of total non-GAAP revenues. This is up from 53% in the third quarter and 26% from the same period last year. More importantly and ahead of our guidance, 86% of our non-GAAP smartphone revenue during the fourth quarter of 2011 was from original IP content.

Because of the increased revenue from original IP, our non-GAAP gross margin was 86.7%, up 568 basis points quarter to quarter and up 965 basis points from 77% during the same period last year. As a reminder, we include two items in our cost of sales. The first is royalties to third-party license holders, which have been and will continue to decline and the second is hosting costs for our freemium games, which are increasing each quarter on an absolute basis due to the increase in our DAU and MAU.

I will now walk through some additional operating results for our fourth quarter of 2011. Total non-GAAP operating expenses in the fourth quarter were $18.6 million, up 13% from $16.5 million during the third quarter of this year but below our guidance of $20 million. The quarter-over-quarter increase reflects the increase in expenses related to Griptonite and Blammo as our Q3 results only include 2 months of expenses from those acquisitions. The combination of the benefit expected revenues and OpEx coming in lower than forecasted resulted in our ability to report a non-GAAP loss from operations of $1.2 million during the fourth quarter compared to our guidance of a loss of between $5.7 million and $6.6 million.

Our income tax expense during the fourth quarter was $152,000 and our non-GAAP net loss of $1.4 million or a loss of $0.02 per basic share also exceeded our guidance of a loss between $6.3 million to $7.2 million or a loss of $0.10 to $0.12 per basic share. It should be noted that we entered the fourth quarter with 63 million basic shares and 67.3 million diluted shares.

I'll now quickly highlight our full-year results. Total non-GAAP revenue came in at $72.9 million in 2011, which is up 13% compared to 2010. The growth was driven by the increase in non-GAAP smartphone revenues, which grew 310% year over year to $41.9 million, driven by a 1,360% increase of our non-GAAP freemium revenues to $34 million. The growth in non-GAAP smartphone revenues was offset by the 43% decline in featurephone revenues to $31 million.

Non-GAAP operating loss for the full year totaled $3.4 million compared to a loss of $1.7 million during 2010. Non-GAAP net loss for 2011 totaled $4 million compared to a loss of $3 million in 2010. Non-GAAP net loss was $0.07 per share on 57.5 million basic shares outstanding compared to a net loss per share of $0.08 based on 35.4 million basic shares outstanding during 2010. I would point out that our 2011 results included 5 months of operating expenses from Griptonite and Blammo games with only a modest amount of revenues. During 2011, we generated 125.8 million downloads of our games on the Apple, Android and other platforms and ended the year with 176 million total downloads.

A full reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures was included in the press release we issued today. There are two items that I wanted to point on the GAAP income statement. The first is our deferred revenues increased $4.7 million in the fourth quarter. $2.6 million was due to the growth in non-GAAP smartphone revenues from the third quarter, representing a very strong December month. An additional $2.1 million was due to a refinement in our revenue recognition calculation for our virtual currency.

Secondly, we incurred an incremental $561,000 of fair value adjustments related to the earnout from the Blammo Games acquisition. I spoke extensively last quarter about the complexity and forecasting this GAAP expense line item. Given that one of the variables is the end of the quarter stock price, we do not have the ability to provide guidance on this item.

Now turning to the balance sheet. As of December 31st, 2011, our cash and equivalents balance was $32.2 million, which was down from $36.9 million at September 30, 2011, but above our expectations of approximately $29 million. The better-than-expected ending cash balance was primarily due to the strong top line results and lower operating expenses during the quarter. During Q4, we used $4.3 million in cash and operating activities and $736,000 on CapEx, which was partially offset by $260,000 of cash received from stock option exercises.

Now turning to guidance. For the first quarter of 2012, we currently expect non-GAAP revenue to be in the range of $17.5 million to $18.5 million, which includes $14 million to $15 million in non-GAAP smartphone revenues. Our first quarter non-GAAP smartphone revenue guidance implies 122% year-over-year growth at the high end of the range and is essentially flat with Q4 2011.

The flat quarter-to-quarter guidance behind the range is due to three things. One is the additional week of Apple revenue in Q4. Second is a reduced title release slate in Q1 and then lastly, a general slowdown in CPX advertising in the first quarter following the seasonally strong fourth quarter. In addition, total non-GAAP revenues are down quarter to quarter at the high end of the range due to the continued decrease in the featurephone business.

We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 84%. This is down slightly quarter to quarter due to the planned launch of Deer Hunter Reloaded in the first quarter, one of the few branded IP freemium titles we will launch this year.

Our non-GAAP OpEx for the first quarter is expected to be approximately $20 million, which reflects increased hiring and marketing expenses. Starting in the first quarter of 2012, we will be replacing our prior emphasis on non-GAAP operating margin to instead focus on adjusted EBITDA. The change to adjusted EBITDA removes depreciation from the prior non-GAAP operating margin measure and will provide a consistent reporting measure as in GAAP.

Adjusted EBITDA loss defined as non-GAAP operating loss less depreciation of approximately $600,000 is expected to range from a loss of $3.9 million to $4.7 million.

We expect income tax expense for the first quarter of 2012 to be approximately $550,000 and non-GAAP net loss expected to be a loss of between $5 million to $5.8 million or a loss between $0.08 and $0.09 per basic share.

Excluded from our guidance for Q1 2012 from the non-GAAP figures I just provided are $721,000 of amortization of intangibles and cost of sales, $495,000 of amortization of intangibles and OpEx, $43,000 of transitional and restructuring costs, and $941,000 of stock-based compensation. The $941,000 of stock-based compensation excludes any fair value adjustments related to the Blammo earnout, for which we are not providing an estimate due to the issues I previously discussed.

Weighted average common shares outstanding for the first quarter of 2012 are expected to be approximately 63.3 million basic and 68.2 million diluted.

In regards to the full year of 2012, we currently expect non-GAAP smartphone revenues to be between $71 million and $75 million or up 69% to 79% compared to last year and featurephone revenues of between $8.5 million to $10.5 million.

Given our out performance in the fourth quarter of 2011 and our guidance for Q1 2012 smartphone revenue, the full year 2012 smartphone revenue guidance will be less backend loaded. We expect to finish Q4 2012 with a slight non-GAAP operating loss and expected to be breakeven on an adjusted EBITDA basis.

For the full year 2012, we expect 64.1 million basic shares and 70.4 million diluted shares. We continue to expect to burn cash throughout 2012, though at declining rates each quarter until we hit cash flow breakeven in early 2013. We expect to end 2012 with double-digit millions in cash and equivalents. As Niccolo mentioned, we anticipate reaching profitability without needing to access the capital markets and without taking on any debt.

I will close by saying that we are very pleased with our robust Q4 momentum we have going into 2012. We expect the combination of our growing install base along with our strong balance sheet to position Glu to remain a leader in the freemium social mobile gaming space.

I will now turn the call over to the operator for questions. Operator?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Darren Aftahi with Northland Securities.

DARREN AFTAHI, ANALYST, NORTHLAND SECURITIES: Thanks for taking my question. Congratulations. Just three quick ones and then a housekeeping. I think your R&D number was $12.7 million in the quarter. That's obviously going to be the biggest cost driver going forward. I mean how do you feel about that as a line item going forward as you grow your business? Is that something that's going to grow dramatically or its steady state at $13 million something you can get leverage off on the revenue line? Second question on Stardom. When do you plan to launch that on Android? Then third as it pertains to China, how much of that is baked into your guidance for Apple? Thanks.

ERIC LUDWIG: I'll take the first and the third. Darren, thank you, Darren Aftahi. So R&D line which was roughly $12 million this quarter. It is going to uptick a small amount every quarter, getting to roughly kind of $13.25 million or $13.5 million by year end. But it's not significant increases. This is more incremental hiring with some incremental OpEx for raises and cost-of-living adjustments. So we definitely will start to yield the leverage in the model as we mentioned by getting to adjusted EBITDA breakeven by the fourth quarter.

Then China being baked in the numbers, obviously our guidance on total smartphone revenue assumes all the different channels and territories. So not exactly specifically sure what the question was, but all revenues from all regions and all channels is baked into this guidance that we just provided.

Then Stardom coming on Android will be coming towards the end of this first quarter.

DARREN AFTAHI: Okay and then just one follow-up. I just want to make sure cause you rattled off a ton of numbers. In-app purchases in the quarter, 1.25 million. Is that correct?

ERIC LUDWIG: 1.522 million -- 1,522,000 transactions.

DARREN AFTAHI: Perfect. Thanks. Appreciate it.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks, Darren.

OPERATOR: Atul Bagga with Lazard Capital.

ATUL BAGGA, ANALYST, LAZARD CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on a great quarter.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks, Atul.

ATUL BAGGA: I have a handful of questions for you guys. I think you touched upon the non-incented ad and incented ad. Is it all seasonality or is something else going on in this space now?

NICCOLO DE MASI: I put it pretty much all down to seasonality, Atul. As you can imagine, pretty much every advertiser saves their bullets so to speak for the holiday season. And that's true for publishers through to car companies. So, from all we've seen and I'm sure you've kept tabs on what's going on in the press and blogosphere, the ecosystem's been pretty stable for the past six months otherwise.

ATUL BAGGA: Are you seeing any more willingness by the advertisers to use mobile as a channel?

NICCOLO DE MASI: I think there's continual quarter on quarter signs that the mass of advertisers whether it's a P&G or someone else in the consumer product space is constantly looking and probing at the scale of this ecosystem. But supply is growing quickly in the mobile space. So, to push up ECPMs you need advertiser demand to grow faster than supply. So far, I sort of get the impression that they're kind of keeping in lock step at the moment.

ATUL BAGGA: The second question I had is there were a couple of things from Apple, not directly from Apple but what we have heard about [Appleistic] and some of the applications from the app store and also there have been some things about the part download. I just wanted to hear your comments. How does that affect you guys?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Well net-net, we obviously partner really closely with Apple, Google, Microsoft and we believe these three companies will be the winners of the smartphone platform space and probably over the next five plus years you'll see those three companies make inroads far beyond mobile only. So, most and all our titles get featured. We support all of these companies' new technology initiatives. As you can imagine, we're always at pains to ensure that we are following exactly the kinds of behavior that they would look for in order to get that support. So net-net, Atul, on any of these store fronts we are probably a beneficiary of anything that reduces the ability of clones and copycats and other types of developer behavior to put out at times products that can clutter these stores.

ATUL BAGGA: In the past, more specifically, has any of these issues really affected your numbers?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Well, on the Android marketplace there were certainly a huge amount of piracy and cloning going on say 12, 18 months ago. Google made a big effort in consultation with developers such as ourselves to clamp down on that. So a lot of the growth that you've seen in Android this year came from them reducing the ability of other developers to pirate whether Glu games and Nintendo games and bundle them up on the Android market. They've also been better at curating the store. They've also added things like in-app purchase and carrier billing. All of those things in tandem have obviously led to a tremendous boost, particularly in the start of the year and the middle of the year in Android revenues. So, yes, I think it's undeniably a helpful trend for Glu when ecosystems favor investments in original, high-quality content over anything else.

ATUL BAGGA: Last question and I will get back in the queue. Japan, can you talk about what your strategy might be for Japan? Is this something which will be one of the focus area for you in 2012 or is it still out? Thank you.

NICCOLO DE MASI: So, Apple, Google, Microsoft are obviously taking their stores to every country they can and we're going to partner closely with them in doing that. Localizing content is something that obviously we're already doing with the Chinese markets and we're going to look at other markets, whether it's Japan or Korea that we think offer great scale, great lifetime values and you're undoubtedly going to see us exposed to that growth. We haven't yet unveiled any more specific than that but I wouldn't rule out us working through partners where it makes sense for channels that we don't have an on-the-ground presence for, for channels that we don't think fit with the rest of the global distribution strategy. Our overall overarching strategy is to remain an integrated publisher or developer business.

ATUL BAGGA: Just to clarify the announcement we saw from Mobage and GREE, I think it was Mobage that you guys are partnering with them. That is only for the Western market, not for the Japanese market?

ERIC LUDWIG: We haven't provided hugely more details on that, Atul, but and you can imagine that given that we service the Android marketplace directly and the Apple marketplace directly that those sorts of partnerships will be for channels that we don't do a lot on. So most likely going to be for Japanese carriers and that kind of thing.

ATUL BAGGA: Thank you. I will get back in the queue.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks, Atul.

OPERATOR: Adam Krejcik with Roth Capital Partners.

ADAM KREJCIK, ANALYST, ROTH CAPITAL PARTNERS: A couple questions, first on Stardom. I am just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the customer demographic for this game? How it's monetizing compared to some of your other games developed and kind of your vision for the life cycle of this game and where it can progress to? I guess what are your expectations?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Well this is, I think, by every measure the most successful casual game that Glu has developed and published. And by most successful I mean it's held the highest top grossing slot and has a lot of legs in it, clearly. I mean lifetime value in this product is significantly higher than it has been than any other casual title.

You can see that when you look at the top three and top grossing charts, you can see that Stardom always sits quite high up in the top grossing charts, almost irrespective of where it is in the top three. That's because the users are highly engaged. They stick around a long time and over time they spend. So we expect this product to have similar if not better life cycle characteristics. It will be updated the same way that we update all of our titles. Where there's an ROI we'll make the investment.

Over time, you'll expect that you'll come to a point where as with every title this one will be better served with a derivative or a follow-on product than simply perennially updating the same title. But so far, we're looking forward to getting this to Android and potentially other platforms. You've probably seen that the Valentine's update already has made a positive impact in the past week or so. So there're good legs and I expect us to still be talking about this at next quarter's earnings call with as much details.

ADAM KREJCIK: And how much of this game are you guys kind of baking in for your guidance? I mean is this kind of the potential upside driver if you guys come in well ahead of your guidance again in Q1 like you did this past quarter?

ERIC LUDWIG: Well I mean I'm not going to talk about exactly where the upside would be, but we've got a light release slate this quarter with a lot of backend components to that release slate. So really the strength of our guidance in Q1 is really coming off the catalog, the titles that we have in the fourth quarter. So, that title staying in the top grossing, you could probably assume a good amount of assumption that we have are persistent nature of titles, both from last year and fourth quarter driving our Q1 growth or driving the Q1 smartphone revenue.

ADAM KREJCIK: Got it and then this team, Blammo, are they working on anything else or can you kind of give us a sense? I mean are they going to be focused on this entirely? It seems like they have a pretty good track record so far so I am just trying to get a sense for are there other projects they're working on or what?

NICCOLO DE MASI: There's clearly wonderful core competence. That's why we were pleased to make the investment, ultimately the structure and acquisition. And we're going to invest in growing that location with the core competence that's clearly established.

So, you'll see games that are mass market, games that appeal to male and female pretty nicely. Actually Stardom is pretty nicely balanced we believe between male and female. So I think the philosophy we will be seeing more of that in future new titles as well as obviously looking at whether or not there is derivatives of things like Stardom that can be made that reutilize some of the engine components. So, no, there's not going to be some veering off to have Blammo focused on trying to make Blood and Glory 2 or something.

ADAM KREJCIK: Then lastly, Niccolo, I think you mentioned on Android you expected it to slow down over the near or midterm or maybe I missed that, but just could you kind of expand on your commentary about the growth of the Android market and your guys' exposure to it?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Well, we think we're the most exposed company and we think we're the leading Android freemium games company overall globally. What I said was I didn't expect the percentage as part of revenues from Android to be expanding significantly in the medium term. In the long term, it probably will. In the medium term, what you've seen with Q4 is that Apple still is doing an outstanding job putting out record-breaking smartphone shipments of devices like the 4S. If they can continue to do that, you're going to see that iOS continues to grow at the same rate that Android's growing. So this is really good news for Glu overall, right, because it means that both Android and iOS are keeping a good clip up as we see the year pan out.

ERIC LUDWIG: But Adam, our guidance year over year for full year to full year was 75% in the midpoint growth in smartphone revenues. So despite the percentage not changing on Android, you can expect Android as a percent of revenue to grow at least by 75% in absolute dollars year over year.

ADAM KREJCIK: Thanks, guys.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks, Adam.

OPERATOR: Mark Argento with Craig-Hallum.

MARK ARGENTO, ANALYST, CRAIG-HALLUM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: Just a question around number of titles. I know I think you mentioned you guys published 20 games in '11. You're hoping to do 20+ in '12. Could you fine tune that number maybe a little bit for us? I am just trying to get a better idea of what you're thinking about in terms of revenue per game. Should it clearly pace ahead of what you're guiding the smartphone revenues at, 75+ percent in the midpoint for the year?

But trying to better understand kind of what you're looking at or how you're thinking about modeling or the -- kind of the number of games that you're going to put out?

And then my second question would be thinking about kind of your mix of casual games versus kind of more the action/adventure games that you've had success, do you see skewing a little bit more towards the action/adventure where you've had the success and kind of the eight hits you had looked like most all of those were in that genre? I am just trying to better understand fine tuning the kind of the model and thinking about the mix of games.

ERIC LUDWIG: Okay, so we said last quarter that we expected about 75% of our titles to be in the action/adventure space. That's still where we are. We do have obviously 1 or 2 good casual teams but out of Glu's total 20+ teams, the vast majority clearly have an action/adventure affinity and we want to build on that.

And in building on that, you're going to see us support not only titles that have gone out late last year and that's the Q4 successes. So you'll see us supporting those through this year but you'll also see us investing in bigger follow-on and derivative products as well as bigger, higher-quality, action/adventure titles the second half of this year that are new.

If you look at that kind of those statements in summation, you can garner that we have a fixed number of teams. Some of them supporting Q4 successes. Some of them are going to roll off 2011 products and reload to build another title. But if we're trying to up the bar with production values, over time we expect revenue per title to grow. But we've always said that we were going to put out fewer and fewer titles the more successful we get because teams will get more consumed supporting big user bases and big revenues.

We also realize that there is an advantage to Glu in making investments for longer, going bigger, with higher production values or titles because it cuts through that clutter and it's an absolute differentiator. So that will be the philosophy that we carry through the rest of 2012. Build on the success and the philosophy of 2011, obviously invest in the newfound success at Blammo Games and casual. But there's not going to be a departure from those sorts of philosophies in the next 12 months.

MARK ARGENTO: How many games did you have that were active, I guess, at the end of the year?

ERIC LUDWIG: Well active -- the titles that Niccolo and I talked about, we launched four very successful titles in Q4 and then we had five other persistent titles. All nine of those titles were active in the sense that we had development teams still continuing to add content and provide updates. So that would be probably a real active title definition. The other titles are still generating revenue, even the Men versus Machines and other titles that have the team has moved on. There is still -- those are still live titles that are still generating revenue, though at a much less meaningful clip.

MARK ARGENTO: Once you have Griptonite fully up and going in terms of production, how many teams -- how many total teams will you guys have available to you?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Well we always said that Griptonite's got about 11, 10 or 11. We had about 10 or 11 to Glu prior to these acquisitions. So you should think of the whole company as 22, 23 something like that.

MARK ARGENTO: Then any major change? I know it sounds like with the success, at least initial success you've had with the Blammo guys around Stardom, hopefully reloading a couple titles behind that from a talent perspective are you comfortable with where you are now in terms of the DNA or are you -- could we see you guys make some more acquisitions out there in the mobile space in terms of some casual gaming talent?

NICCOLO DE MASI: We're pretty comfortable with the approximately 600 people we have now. We feel we've got enough location with talent tools that we can grow each of them organically. There's a continual pruning exercise every quarter, growing teams, shrinking teams, growing locations, shrinking locations, subject to success. So we never think we've reached the finishing line with regards to improvability of talent base, talent teams, studio locations and, of course, driving those synergies between all of these teams and locations. Which we're spending -- we've always invested in. We've always run a Glu university program that gets those synergies driven out for the past year or two. But we're getting better at this. I mean we're getting better at everything, Mark. So, I think you're going to see us slowly but surely continue to grow not only the size of the operation but the quality quarter on quarter here at Glu.

MARK ARGENTO: Then last question, Eric, I know you had mentioned that in the quarter that there was an adjustment for the way you guys were recognizing some deferred revenue and just wanted to see if you could give me a two-liner on that to better understand it?

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes, so there's a fourth quarter -- we refine our rev rec policy on virtual currency. Previously we were recognizing over 3 months and we've added an incremental deferral of 15 days to go to a mid-quarter convention versus a beginning-of-quarter convention for each of the months of revenue.

MARK ARGENTO: Thanks, guys.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks, Mark.

OPERATOR: Scott Searle with B. Riley Company.

SCOTT SEARLE, ANALYST, B. RILEY & COMPANY, INC.: Thanks for taking my questions. Eric, I apologize if you covered this earlier, but did you give a number for China, in terms of your featurephone revenue? Also, in terms of the dollars per -- the average micro transaction during the quarter?

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes, the first one you talked about it was $5.79 down from $6.40 to the prior quarter. The number of in-app purchase billable transactions went up to 1,522,000. So kind of overall revenue grew significantly, in-app purchasing slight mix shift down in terms of pricing. That was just due to more programs that we ran. Then China we did not break out featurephone. Our featurephone business is now only 25% of the total revenue. In terms of overall revenue, China -- featurephone legacy China is a very small number.

SCOTT SEARLE: Got you. Then just in terms of monetization of the different platforms, you indicated that Android was doing very well. I'm not sure if you gave any numbers on that front. I was wondering, Niccolo, if you could provide a little bit more color just in terms of how that's monetizing versus iOS? Maybe also give us some idea of how tablets are monetizing versus smartphones right now to give us some sort of an idea of how that's progressing?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Okay, well we break out the percentage of total smartphone revenues that come from Android and we said that was approximately 30% for the quarter of the $15 million. That's across all Android. So, the Android market that Google operates is the largest and most successful channel for Android games by a long margin. But there are other places. I mean carrier stores are allowing Android content and there's a couple third-party providers. Amazon, of course, has their own store and their own device. There's numerous other channels that we take advantage of once we've made an Android title.

We're seeing that overall on a per-user basis, nothing has maxed or surpassed the average revenue per user that iOS generates. That's true for both phones and tablets. Generally speaking, we believe that tablet users are probably the kind of demographic and the kind of device that will generate more annual revenue per user than you'll find on something with a smaller form factor. But we don't have particularly I'd say type statistics on how tablet users compare by manufacturer for Android or how they compare from things like the Amazon Kindle Fire versus an iOS tablet. We just know that they are significant and they are not cannibalizing phones, which is really good news for Glu because mobile devices are cannibalizing non-mobile devices as an entertainment medium and all of that benefits Glu in terms of overall aggregate gaming ecosystem.

Over time, I expect it to reach parity. So I would expect -- I don't know if it's in a year or two years, but the fact that Android marketplace is using carrier billing means that I think as emerging markets gravitate towards Android phones and are able to transact and pay for goods without a credit card, you're going to see that the average revenue and certainly total revenue from Android will catch up to iOS. That's all very good news for Glu because we are uniquely able to make our content work on hundreds of Android devices very, very efficiently. We are long-term goals on anything Android that's for sure.

SCOTT SEARLE: Lastly if I could just in terms of the new title slate, did you give approximate dates about when we should see some of the new titles hitting? Then also just Eric in terms of R&D bumping up a little bit as we go forward here, is that related to increasing cost per title or is it really just a little bit more aggressive in terms of the number of titles you would expect in the current quarter but really gearing up over the course of 2012?

ERIC LUDWIG: Sure, Scott. Thanks for the questions. So in terms of the title releases, we just released Rogue Racing about a week ago. So that is the first of the five titles in the first quarter and the other titles will be coming out between now and middle to end of March. So Reloaded will be at the very end of March and then working backwards the other titles would be releasing kind of backwards from there to mid-February.

Then in terms of R&D, the small uptick in R&D kind of quarter to quarter to quarter, there're still some continual hiring that we have. One to round out some of the current dev teams and then towards the end of the year we do have some additional development teams that we're adding on board in some locations. So part of it is filling in the teams. Another part is adding a couple of teams in the back half of the year. Then there's just the classic April raises that we have for employees globally. So there's an uptick from that as well.

SCOTT SEARLE: Great. Thanks, nice quarter.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks, Scott.

OPERATOR: Dan [Toomey] with Morgan Keegan.

DAN TOOMEY, ANALYST, MORGAN KEEGAN & CO. INC.: This is on behalf of Tavis McCourt. I just wondered if you could go over again your DAU and MAU metrics for Q4 and then talk about what you see for them over the next year?

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes, Dan, thanks for the call. So we had 2.9 million daily active users in the month of December, 31.4 million monthly active the month of December. Both of those were up nicely quarter to quarter. Downloads in the fourth quarter 2011, we had 44.7 million downloads of our titles on Apple, Android, other platforms for a year ending cumulative 176.1 million.

Then in terms of what that trend looks like quarter to quarter, year over year, in the forecast, we don't really provide forecasts on what that is. Just given it's dependent upon title release dates and times, success of titles themselves, monetization of titles. So titles like Stardom monetize better so you can have a different revenue factor with different titles. So, we're not trying to give guidance on those metrics.

DAN TOOMEY: Okay, thank you.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks, Dan.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Atul Bagga with Lazard Capital.

ATUL BAGGA: Thanks for taking my call again. I was wondering if -- you talked about your total number of installs, 176. Can you guys share with us what is the total number of unique UDIDs that you have?

ERIC LUDWIG: That's not something that we are breaking out right now.

ATUL BAGGA: Okay, fair enough. Then I think on tablets, any kind of tablet, iPad, Android, or Kindle, can you talk about what percentage of the revenue is coming from tablets versus smartphones now? What's the growth trajectory on tablets versus smartphones?

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes, so we're also not breaking that out though I think the metric is out there on both Apple and the Android. I think on Apple, the iPads are 15-ish to 20-ish percent of the overall install base. Those devices do monetize better so whatever that install base would be, certainly on iOS you could expect the number in terms of revenue would be that number or above in terms of percentage of revenue because they do monetize better. But we don't have -- we're not providing anything -- any more granularity on that metric.

ATUL BAGGA: Okay. Then the last one, you mentioned for 2012 you can expect to see 20+ games. Can you talk about what percentage of these games would be coming from your own studios versus Blammo versus Griptonite? Thank you.

ERIC LUDWIG: Sure, thanks, Atul. So yes, we've said 20+ games. And we have said publicly, Griptonite there will be at least eleven games coming from Griptonite from these ten to eleven teams that Niccolo mentioned. Blammo we've said had Stardom in Q4 of this past year. There's an additional title coming in the second quarter from Blammo and most likely in an incremental title towards the second half of the year. That's really what we've said publicly about the acquisitions and the number of titles coming from them.

Then as Niccolo mentioned, depending upon how successful the other launches are, if the titles persist and the teams persist, you may have the smaller number of titles launching for the rest of the year, just given that successful titles have persistence in them.

ATUL BAGGA: Just so I understand this, can you talk a little bit about let's say a title like Contract Killer. In terms of when the title was in development stage, what was the team size and now what might be the team size for that title?

ERIC LUDWIG: So that title of Contract Killer, the original that was launched at the back at the end of March 2011 had about a 10 to 12 person development team, about 6 to 7 month development cycle. That title today still has about the same team size roughly dedicated to it.

ATUL BAGGA: Perfect. Thank you so much.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks, Atul.

OPERATOR: Darren Aftahi with Northland Securities.

ERIC LUDWIG: Hey, Darren.

DARREN AFTAHI: Hi, Eric. Hypothetically, if Apple was to introduce a device for the living room like a television, can you talk a little bit about timeframes and incremental costs to port your current applications to a larger screen? Thanks.

NICCOLO DE MASI: Sure, so the good news for Glu is that we already invest in big canvas sizes and high resolution art for all of our Q4 titles, Q4 '11 titles onward. So games like Blood & Glory and Frontline Commando would also not only hypothetically work well if Apple introduced something in the living room but it would also work well if taken places like the Mac store, which have even bigger screens than tablets.

So we are thinking of course about long-term futures where Apple, Google, Microsoft, as I said, in one of the earlier questions, do play a bigger role in gaming generally and it's not just on the phone. Think PCs and a living room. I think all three of these companies over the next five plus years have to have a converged strategy and so by the way will other companies like Sony and Samsung, or all five of these can stitch together, call it a quadruple play of tablets and phones and laptops and living room.

The good news for Glu is I expect all of these players to want to run semi-curated or curated storefront experiences. So the kinds of relationships we have, the way we work, the kind of games we build, showing off the hardware, this whole philosophy is going to I think stand us in good stead with all five of these companies over the next few years.

DARREN AFTAHI: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: At this time, there are no further questions. Gentlemen, are there any closing remarks?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Okay, well we thank you all for attending. We'd also like to thank my colleagues and our shareholders for support as we continue to build momentum and become the world's leading freemium mobile gaming company. Thank you again for joining the call and we'll speak to you next quarter.

ERIC LUDWIG: Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's Glu fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sorent : Glu Mobile Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | igamsof : Games Software | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120222e827001me
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Lagardere SCA Sales Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,921 words
   PD
7 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the Lagardere 2011 full-year revenues conference call. I now hand over to Mr. Mellor. Sir, please begin.

   TD
ANTHONY MELLOR, HEAD OF IR, LAGARDERE SCA: Good morning to all, and welcome to this conference call. With me in the room today is Arnaud Lagardere, General and Managing Partner; Arnaud Nourry, CEO of the Publishing branch; Dominique D'Hinnin, Co-Managing Partner; and Laurent Carozzi, CFO of the Unlimited branch.

I now give the floor to Arnaud Lagardere.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE, GENERAL & MANAGING PARTNER, LAGARDERE SCA: Thank you, Anthony. Let me summarize the press release that you had a couple of minutes ago. Just to tell you three main issues.

One, I think with the numbers that you've seen on the sales, we've shown some resilience, despite a tough environment that you know. So we're pretty happy about this. Nevertheless, we have some significant issues that we will address, especially in the Unlimited business unit.

Number two, if I take very briefly BU by BU, and Laurent Carozzi, who is here, and especially Arnaud Nourry also, who is here, will probably go into a deeper analysis, but what we could tell you, very briefly, about 2011, is that in the Publishing branch we've shown also some resilience from what I would call the traditional businesses.

Good performances in the US, in Spain and in France, and very good performances also, in the e-book business in the US and in UK. And we are very happy with this, very happy with the growth that we see, very happy with the business plan that we have, and with the perspectives that we see during 2012 and the years to come.

As far as Active is concerned, also good resilience in the traditional businesses. Very good performance in, what we call, the entertainment business, which is the TV production. That is doing well, and also this is a good sign for us.

As far as Services is concerned, we've seen very good performances, especially in airports, generally speaking, in travel retail, which is a good sign, also, for the future.

Last but not least, and I think that we've communicated quite significantly during the precedent conference call and Laurent Carozzi, who is here, the main disappointment that we had in 2011 was, and is still, Unlimited, for a lot of reasons, and Laurent will get back to this if you want to.

We address those issues by changing the management, especially in the European zone, which is the main issues that we have, bringing Alain Lemarchand on board.

You know that those things take time to recover, because most of the contracts that we see are long-term contracts, three to five years, first of all.

Second, because we don't want to have stupid reactions and getting to huge minimum guarantees and grabs on contracts, just for the sake of saying that we are alive and we are still on the business. We'll recover this business unit, step by step, maybe slowly, but surely. This is our strategy to go.

And if you take the Unlimited business unit, if you take also Canal Plus, our stake that we have in Canal Plus, we announced this morning that we will have significant impairment losses that you will see and that will be more specifically communicated in the weeks to come. Well, after the Supervisory Board on March 8, so we announce the number roughly, around EUR900 million that we have.

We will not go into more precise numbers. Maybe Dominique will give you a little more detail on what's the part of Unlimited and Canal Plus, but not in so much detail, since we don't have the precise numbers yet, and we will communicate them again on March 8.

Just maybe to conclude, and leave the floor to the questions, to tell you that I remain extremely still positive on the businesses we have; positive on Unlimited, despite the difficulties that we had in 2011. Maybe we'll continue to have some difficulties, because we want to recover slowly; gently but surely.

Maybe a little word on EADS, to tell you that I will be proposed as non-executive Chairman of EADS for the next general assembly, March 31 of this year. I still remain positive on the prospects of EADS, but still this is not a core business, and I will not say anything more than that. But you understand what it means.

Our Company doesn't have the strategy to stay indefinitely in EADS, but I will not make any more comments on this. The reason why I accepted to be Chairman is that it was part of the agreement that was designed by Merkel and Sarkozy, in July 2007, sorry, and we want to show, as long as we're shareholders, that we are still in co-control of the company, and that we play by those rules, which doesn't mean that, again, we will stay indefinitely in this company that is doing extremely well.

I know how much EADS represents in the valuation of Lagardere. I know that. I follow that almost every day. I know the consequences of this. Just don't forget that I know it, and we will do the proper thing at the proper time.

So this is pretty much what I wanted to say to introduce maybe the conference call, and I leave the floor to your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Conor O'Shea, Kepler.

CONOR O'SHEA, ANALYST, KEPLER CAPITAL MARKETS: Just three questions. Firstly on the Publishing side, I just wondered, could you give a little bit more detail in terms of the stark contrast in growth in the fourth quarter from the US business compared with the French business?

I'm just wondering, specifically on the French business, if it's anything to do with the closure of independent bookstores. If you could give a word on that.

Second question on the retail Services business, if we could have an idea of the impact in terms of operating profit on a full-year basis of the ADP contract which is now accounted for as a joint venture.

And thirdly, on the Unlimited business, could we have an idea at this stage of the calendar as it shapes up, by quarter, for 2012?

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Okay, Arnaud, maybe you can start.

ARNAUD NOURRY, CEO, PUBLISHING, LAGARDERE SCA: In the US we had a good last quarter. I think it's mainly because it was the fourth quarter with a basis in 2010 that was not that high because without any Stephenie Meyer sales. That's one reason.

We had a good Publishing program this year, and we enjoyed very significant growth in e-book sales in the last three months. I suppose it's because of the amount of devices sold by Apple, Amazon, Kobo and Barnes. So these are the three reasons for the growth in the US.

In France, the performance was not as good, mainly because the year before the back-to-school sales were disrupted in September by the delay in the publication of the programs by the Ministry of Education, and our sales of text books went over to October and November in 2010, and we did not enjoy that in 2011.

So that's the main reason why we had a lower performance in France in the last quarter.

It is not related to the performances of the bookstores. The French market overall last year has been flat, with significant growth of sales through Internet, Amazon and FNAC. But the bookstore as a channel declined only by 0.5 points, so there is nothing dramatic in the performances of the bookstores in France.

CONOR O'SHEA: Okay, but I just want -- firstly on that, I think in your press release it says that general literature sales were down by 7.7% in the fourth quarter, presumably outside education in France. How would you explain such a decline?

ARNAUD NOURRY: Well, this is just program related. We had some successes. We had the biography of Steve Jobs by Isaacson that sold very well, and we had very nice novel published by Lattes, rien ne s'oppose a la nuit de Delphine de Vigan that sold almost 400,000 copies. But that was slightly less than what we achieved a year ago, and that's the business we're in.

CONOR O'SHEA: Okay, thank you.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Okay Laurent, on Unlimited.

LAURENT CAROZZI, CFO, UNLIMITED, LAGARDERE SCA: I am not ready to show you -- we are not ready to give you, on a quarter-for-quarter basis, the forecast for 2012 sales.

But, in terms of cyclicality for next year, the main things you should probably keep in mind are the fact that in Q1 in 2011, it was very strong because you had the Asian Cup in Asia. We won't have that this year, although we will have also CAN, which is the African championship, but it's not such a big event as the Asian Cup. So probably expect Q1 2012 to be a little weaker than the one you had last year.

And then, for the rest of the year, it should be marked by qualifiers, many in Asia and in Europe, spread through the year. So we'd expect more regular trends.

So, give or take, these are the main events for next year. So Q1 may be a little blip, and then more regular trends versus 2011.

CONOR O'SHEA: Okay. Thank you.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Well guys, we'll try to avoid any guidance for 2012 as you know. Now maybe some indications on the sales, but we will do that in March 8 after the meeting that we will all have after the Supervisory Board. But I understand your question, obviously.

CONOR O'SHEA: And just on the retail side Services, the impact of the ADP being equity consolidated. Any idea on how much that took out of EBITA, either in Q4 or on a full-year basis?

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Yes, Dominique.

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN, CO-MANAGING PARTNER, LAGARDERE SCA: I would rate it as not significant for 2011, so it doesn't have any impact on the guidance we gave you. And we will provide you with our numbers on March 8.

CONOR O'SHEA: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Julien Roch, Barclays Capital.

JULIEN ROCH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: My first question is on the guidance which you provided in Q3 of minus 5% to minus 12% for media operating profit for 2011. You must have more visibility, so I was wondering whether it would be possible to narrow the guidance, which, at the moment, is quite wide, it is my first question.

The second, Arnaud mentioned that Dominique might give us a few pointers on the split of impairment; the EUR900 million between Sports, Canal Plus and others on a rough basis.

And then the last question is, would it be possible to have, out of the active pro forma number of EUR1.075 billion, how much was the Russian radio you sold? These are my three questions. Thank you.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Okay Julien, so many questions for Dominique. Go ahead.

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: First on the guidance, we gave the market guidance last November. We stick to it. I understand they're a bit wide, but I understand the market consensus to that is not crazy. That's all I can say. So we are on track with the market consensus and we are on track with the guidance.

Number two, on the impairment test we are performing, based on 2011 numbers, as we do every year. The main impact was because of the discount rate we use to evaluate our intangible assets. As you know, the stock market was down in the second part of 2011, quite significantly, starting in August, because of the euro crisis. It had an impact on the discount rates, and we had to take these market rates into account.

So if you look at our annual report back in 2010, we were using market rates at the time which were quite high for the Publishing business and the Magazine business, but they were lower for the Sports business and Digital business and the TV-related business. We had to change that, so there are going to be some higher rates we'll be using for 2011, in Digital, in Sports and TV-related activities.

I don't have the final numbers yet, so we had to give -- I cannot give you very precise indications, but we'll be much closer to 9% than anything else, instead of 7.2%, 7.3% last year. This is the most important reason why we had to go over these impairment tests.

On top of that, there are some adjustments to the business plans we take into account, mostly on the Sports side. We had to take the performance, the 2011 performance, into account, and the recovery time we need to get back on track in this business, had an impact on the business plan.

On the Canal Plus side, very little change in the business plan, as far as we know. We had to take some adjustments in the tax rate in France, both corporate tax and VAT impacts, which had a negative impact on the valuation on top of the discount rate.

So that's pretty much where we are. We expect Canal Plus to be about one-third, a big one-third, of the number we gave you, the EUR900 million rough estimate we provided you with, and the Sports division to be the bulk of the remaining figure.

JULIEN ROCH: Okay. And the Russian radio?, And just a subsidiary question, you had Canal Plus pre this impairment of EUR1.5 billion in your account. Is this correct?

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: Yes.

JULIEN ROCH: Okay.

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: And the Radio business was about EUR43 million in sales in 2010, with, I would say, between 10% and 15% operating margin. Something like that.

JULIEN ROCH: Okay. Could you --?

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Anything else?

JULIEN ROCH: Merci.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Merci, Julien. Next question?

OPERATOR: Charles Bedouelle, Exane BNP.

CHARLES BEDOUELLE, ANALYST, EXANE BNP PARIBAS: I have two questions. The first one was on the advertising. We've seen a relatively steeper slowdown in Q4. First I wanted to have some indication of what you see at the start of '12. I know it's early, but we've had some indication from many market operators already on their trend in the start of the year.

And the second point I wanted to alight is, how comfortable you are with the trend, specifically in French Radio, because it seems that it's been contrasting quite a lot with some other players in French Radio. So is it temporary? Is it something more on-going? And how do you fix that?

And maybe as a third, but following, question, can you explain us a little bit what will be the impact of the management change, in France notably, around Active? Thank you.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: So yes, go ahead with the first questions.

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: Yes, the first question may be on the advertising trends. Number one, as usual, but worse than usual, visibility is very low. That's for sure.

Number two, at the end of 2011 we thought 2012 could look like 2009, when we had a very sharp drop in advertising revenues all over the world in the first half of 2009, with about a 15% drop in France. In fact, the good news is, it's not happening.

January and February, which are very small months from an advertising point of view, are in negative waters, but I would say something like minus 5%. March looks better. It's way too early to give you more precise indications. We'll be in a position to give more details in early March.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: As far as the Radio's concerned, Charles, we -- there -- as you know, we have three different radios, really different radios.

If you take Europe number 1, for example, this election year is definitely an opportunity for Europe 1. And we've changed, as you know, most of the people on the radio itself. We had a slow start, but, as you've seen in the audience, in the last audience recently, we're catching up big time, especially against RTL, which is a good thing for us, because it's really a competitor, advertising-wise. So we've been very happy, and I think that from what we see every day, it's continuing to improve.

Constance Benque, the head of our advertising sales force, is very happy about this. I would say she is optimistic about advertising generally speaking, and, more specifically, on the radio. But she is optimistic about Europe 1. We have the right people. The timing is fine. So Europe 1 will not be an issue this year.

RFM is a small radio, highly profitable. It's very focused, as you know, and it will do well this year also.

If we have a concern, it's not a major concern, but at least some difficulties, it's around Virgin, because what we call the convention with the CSA, it's quite a difficult one. It's not as focused as Skyrock is, as Fun is. So it's pretty difficult to have a steady and solid audience. So we have to be very careful on the cost, which is an issue that we haven't been very successful to address.

But, and it will be my transition with your last question, on the roadmap of Denis Olivennes, he has, among other things, the musical radio, especially Virgin Radio. Also to continue to cut costs after the disposal of the international magazine, we still have some work to do in France, and he has this clearly on his roadmap.

He also has on his roadmap Digital, which has not been a huge success for us in the recent years, although we've made some progresses, but the acquisitions that we've made, some of them were successful, others not that successful. So we still continue -- we still have to do some progresses, especially organic-wise. We do not expect to make significant acquisitions in the near future. We don't have any projects so far.

So Denis Olivennes has to reshape a company that is much smaller, much more focused in France. So one, to cut costs; second to find other engines of growth; three, to consolidate the position, the strong positions, we have with Elle, with Paris Match, with Europe 1; and also, probably, to continue to divest in small magazines that we can have here and there. There is still some room for some disposals.

And if one day he comes with a project that is really appealing in France, or maybe outside France, in other businesses than magazine, we will see them, and maybe we will invest. But so far no projects, and so far no investments, significant investments, that we do have in mind.

As you know, there will be new channels on the TNT. We have a project. I'm not that optimistic in investing heavily in TNT, at least not by ourselves. If we have someone that could help us, why not?

It's of significant value, as you've seen with the transactions between Bollore and Canal. But, again, I'm not a big, big fan of investing heavily in TV, even in TNT. We're very happy with what we have with Gulli, so I would prefer keeping what we have, and see what will happen in the next months to go.

Outside this, I don't see in this any other projects where we would have to invest in the months to come.

CHARLES BEDOUELLE: Okay. Thank you very much. Maybe just as a follow-up question, because you mentioned it. You talked about EADS, and maybe some contrast between what you've seen and what you've said, and the position you're in now. But surely it must be pretty difficult to imagine that you will be able to dispose EADS any time shortly after being promoted Chairman of it. So it's non-core business, but is it something more in the coming years, or in the coming quarters, that we're looking at in terms of disposal?

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Obviously, Charles, it's a very sensitive subject. Definitely we will not sell the next morning, for sure. But, you know -- and on one side I'm proud, not for myself but for Lagardere, to have this position, and to show that Lagardere has a significant role in EADS.

On the other side, my duty is to protect the interests of Lagardere, and nothing else. We always said that we had an issue with the A350, coming along nicely and softly. We don't want to repeat the issues that we have with the A380, so I will stick to that position. No disposal before the A350 is well on track, okay?

So quarterly, probably not. By the end of this year, I don't know. Maybe yes, maybe no; I'm not so sure. But definitely not in July, August or September, for sure. But, on the other side, I don't have a deal with anybody saying that we will stay in EADS for years and years.

CHARLES BEDOUELLE: Okay. Thank you very much.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: We have full liquidity, Charles, on this, you know that; full liquidity. Sorry, maybe I should add also the negotiations that we will start between the French Government and the German Government. As you know, Merkel indicated that she would love to acquire the stake of Daimler one day. This will probably open a new pact, a shareholder pact, and maybe at that time we will have an opportunity, who knows.

CHARLES BEDOUELLE: Thank you very much.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: You're welcome, Charles. Next question?

OPERATOR: Matthew Walker, Nomura.

MATTHEW WALKER, ANALYST, NOMURA INTERNATIONAL: Just two questions, please. The first is on proceeds from sales. You always said that it made a difference between organic investment and disposals where you were going to give the cash back. The last we heard that, because of the issues in the Sports business, that proceeds were not going to be reinvested so far in Sports, but might be invested in Retail. I was just wondering if that's still the case.

The second question is related to the A350. You've indicated you're not going to sell before the first flight of the A350. If the first flight of the A350 is put back again, does your position still stand that you will not sell EADS before the A350 flies?

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Yes, we will not do that. We have no indication that there will be more delay, Matt, you know; no indication so far. We've indicated a delay of six months recently but the program is doing very nicely. So it's difficult to give you a precise timing.

But, yes, we'll stick to this, the first flight and the fact that the A350 is doing well, and that in the factories it's doing nicely. So I don't want to be too precise in the timing, because I don't want to have any overhang coming on the stock that is performing extremely well. But we've been very good, probably too good, but we've been very good in protecting the interest of Lagardere in EADS, and will continue to do so, and you will not be disappointed.

As far as the other questions are concerned, maybe I didn't get that wrong, Dominique, you've got one?

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: Yes, about the proceeds. We obviously are following the same tracks. We have three main priorities, which are growth related, because we can expect growth out of these businesses more than in our more mature activities.

One is Digital. It's likely to be more organic driven than acquisition driven, even if we can perform some small acquisitions.

Another one is rights, rights management, rights ownership, and so on in the Sports side, or in other activities. We are still looking at opportunities. I don't expect anything to happen any time soon, but it's still possible.

And the last one is travel retail activities where, again, we are looking at some potential targets. I would not expect anything any time soon.

When we will divest Canal Plus or EADS we are very likely to give some of the money back to our shareholders, either with a special dividend or share buyback program, or both.

MATTHEW WALKER: Okay, that's clear. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Bruno Hareng, Oddo.

BRUNO HARENG, ANALYST, ODDO SECURITIES: I've got two questions. Could you remind us what your strategy is concerning the Services division in terms of reshuffling your asset portfolio? I've got in mind, what type of assets could be sold, for example?

And the second question, in terms of cost savings across the Group, what could you be -- what do you have in mind for next year? Thanks.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: So at far as Services is concerned, you know that we have two businesses; travel retail and press distribution. We are more and more focused in travel retail and non-press distribution, definitely, more and more.

So we have two options. One, we sell quickly all the press distribution and we refocus everything, investments and management time, in travel retail. That's one strategy. I wouldn't advise to do so.

Other option, second option, is to start disposal of some assets step by step in some countries, and we focus on travel retail. We will do that. This is what we will do.

Don't forget that press distribution still brings cash and EBIT, but we know that medium term, hopefully, maybe short term, you never know, this is the business that I wouldn't say will disappear, but at least we'll be in trouble. So we have to anticipate that. And the team in place now with Dag Rasmussen has quite a different set of mind than Jean-Louis Nachury had.

Jean-Louis Nachury did a fantastic job in this division, was more keen to keep press distribution because it was the history, it was his strategy, and, at that time, it was the good one. Now the world is changing more and more, more rapidly, and Dag is aware of this. And we do, Dominique and myself, and especially Dominique and Dag, spend a lot of time in trying to find the right pace to reinvent this business unit. And we will do so.

So you could expect some divestiture, some disposals, in press distribution. We don't say that publicly because we want to keep the value, obviously, of those assets. But this is something that we will do. I think it's the right strategy; focus more on travel retail, on airports, on emerging markets, such as Asia that are doing extremely well.

And a couple of weeks ago Dag presented us a new strategy refocusing on this segment of the market, and it seems very appealing; very, very appealing. So it will be, hopefully, an engine of growth in the years to come for Lagardere as a whole.

You had another question, right? Cost saving across the board.

Well, of course, there are two issues. One is business unit by business unit. I think the head of divisions, and I speak under the control of Arnaud and Laurent who are here, are doing their job to cut costs. They also have to think about growth and keep some expertise and some investments. But I think they've been very, very good so far in keeping the cost under control, at least in those two divisions.

Maybe a little more efforts on Unlimited, probably, to come, but on Lagardere Publishing it's totally under control. I would say there are still some efforts to do in Active, as I said before. In travel retail, not so much.

As far as Lagardere is concerned, and the corporates, and Gerard Adsuar is here with us, we are also working on cutting some costs, because, as you know, we have some divestitures that we made recently, especially on magazine international.

So maybe there's some savings to be made, and we're keeping some efforts on this. I don't want to announce anything more precise than this, but we're working on this and maybe we'll show you in the months to come a plan of more cost cutting for Lagardere as a whole. Nothing more precise that I can tell you today.

BRUNO HARENG: Okay, thanks. Just a follow up, if I may, on the first question. Could you remind us what was the contribution in 2011 of the press distribution business in terms of sales?

And second one, nothing to do with Services, but your pipeline in TV production was quite good in 2011. What about 2012, without giving figures, but is your pipeline as strong? Thank you very much.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Dominique?

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: Press distribution is about 30% of sales in Lagardere Services.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Okay. And, as far as entertainment is concerned, yes, we had a good year. Well, we still have good and high-end productions like The Borgia, that we will continue to shoot; like the adaptation of the Luc Besson movie Transporters, that we will start also to shoot this year.

The issue we have with entertainment is that we're, on one side, large but not as large as we would want, and definitely too French. So we are looking at some partnerships, maybe some acquisitions. But we have to be very careful because this is a business that depends highly on people, and it's difficult to get the right deal at the right time, for the right money. But definitely Takis knows the industry well, because he was at TF1 before. And he has three or four great ideas of partnerships outside of France and we will see them.

And maybe by the end of the year we will reshape a little bit this unit and make it maybe a little more solid, and not have high and lows as we did in the past. Also we've been very lucky in term of sales and EBIT. But we could expect some partnership this year. This is possible.

BRUNO HARENG: Thank you very much.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: You're welcome. Next question?

OPERATOR: [Bianca Delares, Merrill Lynch]

BIANCA DELARES, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, sorry. My question's already been answered. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jerome Bodin, Natixis.

JEROME BODIN, ANALYST, NATIXIS: Two small questions, please. The first one, can you maybe confirm that you have acquired the Marie Claire stake in the Be magazine? And, if yes, is it maybe the first step of a bigger deal with Prouvost family? That's my first question.

And my second on is on, you mentioned recently the idea of partnerships with Qatar and Sports Division. Maybe could we have more details on that? Thank you.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: I mean the deal we did on Marie Claire, by Marie Claire, definitely not. As you know, our strategy is to sell this stake. We haven't found an opportunity because we don't have a buyer yet. But we still keep on trying to sell it.

As far as acquiring Marie Claire's stake in Be, the answer is yes, and under the control --

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: It was part of the initial deal when we merge our Be magazine with their magazine. It was a face-saving device, in fact, for Marie Claire. So we talked about merging the two magazines together, but it's, in fact, Be; and, at the end of the day, it made the Marie Claire magazine disappear.

JEROME BODIN: Okay.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Laurent?

LAURENT CAROZZI: As far as the broader collaborations with Qatar is concerned, maybe, Arnaud, I might refer the question to you.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Thank you, Laurent. As you know, Qatar has been, and still is, obviously, a very good friend of us. It raised their stake in Lagardere which, to us, was great news. They probably wanted also to have a better price, an average price of Lagardere, which I understand; and they thought the price was cheap. I do think so too.

So they had the opportunity to buy some stake. They did it, which is very good news for us.

We do have two main areas of partnership with them. One is entertainment and production. As you know, in the past we've been partners in Al Jazeera Kids. We've done some work in production with them. And we will continue to do so in other areas, which is good news for Lagardere and, hopefully, for them also.

In the sport industry they've been very active, winning the FIFA Cup in their country, buying some football clubs like Paris Saint-Germain also, and investing in TV rights at the same time. We've been in constant communication with them, and, you know for sure, if there is a partner for us in sport, it will be Qatar.

So I don't want to say anything yet, because I don't have their authorization, obviously, and we haven't pursued definitely, exactly where we would partner. But we have some ideas, very precise ideas, with them.

It's good news for us, because they are tremendously rich. But, more important than that, they have a lot of talents also, which is something that we should recognize. And they have a position and a credibility that they've been able to build over the years that are really an asset for them and for us.

We will announce very soon, in the days to come, maybe the weeks to come, that we'll bring a Qatar man, I don't know how you say it, Qatari, whatever, a person from Qatar, in the Board of Unlimited, which will strengthen our relation with them. And we will then, probably step by step, announce some partnership in sports.

So the answer to your question is yes, they are, and they will be more and more partners to us, as far as Lagardere Global is concerned, and, more specifically, as far as Unlimited is concerned.

JEROME BODIN: Thanks.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: You're welcome. Next question?

OPERATOR: Simon Wallis, ING.

SIMON WALLIS, ANALYST, ING: Two questions, please. The first is just about accounting for Canal Plus in 2012. Are you still going to be accounting for this as an asset held for sale and not consolidating the net income of the business?

And, I guess related to that, can you comment on whether or not you're looking perhaps for a financial buyer, or a trade buyer? There's some rumors that Lazard is being engaged.

The second question I have is regarding e-book trends. You said a little bit, descriptively, in the press release. I'm just wondering if you can comment on numbers, so growth rates in e-books, and talking about the trends you're seeing in each of the main markets.

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: Okay. On Canal Plus we are not going to change the way we account for the stake in 2011. 2012, we see. I f we divest it, of course there will be a change.

2011, it was an equity sized stake, but, because of the impairment tests we perform every year, in 2011 as in 2010, if you look at our numbers, we don't recognize the net income in our accounts. So it will be the same in 2011 as it was in 2010.

2012, obviously I don't know yet. But assuming we keep the stake, which is not the target, assuming we keep the stake, it's likely to be the same kind of accounting treatment.

Now, what are we expecting to do with the stake? The main direction is still to go for an IPO. It's a very resilient business. It's a perfect candidate in difficult or shaky times, from an economic point of view, because it's subscription based.

On the other side, as you very well know, the equity market, the stock market in Europe is not open to large IPOs for the days or weeks to come. We'll be very cautious, but we'll be very active in this respect. And if there is a market opportunity, we'll take it.

Now, in the meantime we don't stay idle, and we talk to some potential third-party acquirers in order to explore or consider a sale. It's not an easy job, because it's not liquid and it's a minority position. Still, because it's a very strong asset, there are some ideas, I would say, some interested parties. There is nothing to be expected in the next few days or weeks, obviously, but we are working on several ideas. That's all I can say.

SIMON WALLIS: Okay.

ARNAUD NOURRY: On the e-book sales, in the US the size of the market almost doubled last year. So it reached slightly more than 20% of our business there. I would -- my guess is that it should reach 25% this year. We clearly saw some kind of plateau in the summer of last year, so the growth rate is certainly not what it had been in the first half of 2011.

In the UK, '11 was the first real year for the market. It reached 10% for adult trade books, which is a very significant percentage, like 3 or 4 times what it was the year before. And I guess it's likely to reach, or exceed, 15% in 2012. I'm talking adult books, not education, not exports and not children's books.

In France, the e-book market is still not there. I think with the launch of Amazon in October/November with the new device launched by FNAC, which is based on the Kobo technology at the same time, and with Apple and several smaller players, we have now the landscape in France for the take off in this market. But it doesn't show at all in the 2011 sales. My guess is that it should be somewhere between 3% and 5% of adult sales in '12.

SIMON WALLIS: Thanks.

ARNAUD NOURRY: And in Spain there is no significant market, but, as you know, we're not exposed that much to adult trade publishing in Spain. So I don't think it would be relevant to give you any forecast.

SIMON WALLIS: Yes.

OPERATOR: Lisa Yang, Goldman Sachs.

RICHARD JONES, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: This is Richard Jones, actually. I've just got a couple of questions. The first is I just wanted to check what the US book market did for the full year, last year, including e-books, overall.

And then secondly, it looked to me like the retail sales growth had slowed, to a certain extent, in the fourth quarter. I just wonder if there's anything particular going on there.

ARNAUD NOURRY: The US book market, I think, was down by 2%, including e-books. So a significant decline in print ,like around 7%, and a very significant growth in e-books, which I commented earlier. So the sum of that is around 2% or 3% down. That's my guess, because I don't have any solid figures yet.

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: About the retail business, yes, you're right. There was a slowdown in the growth rate in the fourth quarter last year, mostly coming from our Asian and Pacific Ocean operations, where we had a smaller growth rate and, to a smaller extent, coming from Europe, probably because of the economic environment, which was a little bit pessimistic in the fourth quarter.

On the other side, what we could see, but it's a small part of our retail business, is a pickup in the numbers, in the growth numbers in the US. Not very large, but still a pickup, which shows, once again, that it's a business which is very much connected to the economic environment with some resilience because of the fact it's a worldwide business.

RICHARD JONES: Great, thanks. Actually, could you tell us what the UK book market did as well?

ARNAUD NOURRY: I think the UK book market was down like 4% last year. And if you include Australia and New Zealand, because of the bankruptcy of the RedGroup there, the trend would be even slightly worse.

RICHARD JONES: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nicolas Dubourg, JPMorgan.

NICOLAS DUBOURG, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just to confirm the number of 5% down, was it for Lagardere Active advertising revenues as a total in January and February?

Also, for your Education division, how do you take the recent announcements by Apple of moving into education for digital products? Is it an opportunity, a threat? Thank you.

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: Yes. The 5% decline in advertising revenues in the two first months, January and February, is an indication. Obviously, February's not over yet, by far. Visibility is low and, again, it looks like March, which is a much bigger month, March alone is as large as February and January together, March looks better than the trend we had in January and early February. So that's where we are.

ARNAUD NOURRY: In Education, yes, I was certainly excited by the announcements made by Apple and certainly impressed by their new technology, which broadly consists in providing teachers and students with some tools to create textbooks for the iPad platform.

As we speak, they've only done that in the US, with McGraw-Hill, Pearson and, perhaps, some other publishers. As you know, we are not exposed at all to the American educational market, so it does not have any impact on us, as we speak.

We have very good relations with Apple, thanks to the cooperation we have in the e-book business in the US and in other territories. So we're in touch with these guys to see how we could partner or do business with them in the educational field in Europe.

As we know, in terms of non-English language education, we are number 1 in Europe and certainly the right people to talk with for Apple. So I'm thrilled to have that prospect.

NICOLAS DUBOURG: Thank you.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: Thank you. Next question?

OPERATOR: Conor O'Shea, Kepler.

CONOR O'SHEA: Just two quick follow-up questions. Just firstly, on the taxability of Canal Plus and EADS disposals, the number of changes recently in the tax code and some further proposals looking to curtail the tax-free status of disposals of subsidiaries. Will that affect, in any way, the tax-free nature of such disposals, from your point of view? That's the first question.

And secondly, I think Arnaud mentioned that the elements were very much in place now for a takeoff of e-books in the French market. I'm just wondering what your strategy is to give some support to independent booksellers, which I think understand you generate about 50% of your sales and literature in France so that these guys can remain in business.

DOMINIQUE D'HINNIN: On the tax side, first, I'm afraid we won't have a large capital gain on Canal Plus, so I don't think it's a major issue, anyway.

On the EADS side, obviously, the capital gain is much more -- it's much larger, at least as far as I know. The current -- the change, which was implemented in the tax law in France this year by the current administration, has not a significant impact on the tax rate.

We made the calculation. It should be about EUR15 million, no more than that. So it's not something I would rate as significant compared to the size of the stake. If there are some further changes going forward, either by the current administration or another one, we'll see in due time but I cannot comment on that.

CONOR O'SHEA: Okay. Thank you.

ARNAUD NOURRY: On independent bookstores in France, well first they account for 40% of the market overall; perhaps more in general literature and less in some very commercial products.

There are thousands of such bookstores in France and, although we are absolutely motivated and engaged in supporting these guys because, from all levels they are instrumental in the success of our authors, there's not much we can do to support all of them as a lot, I would say.

So we selectively do our best to support the more professional, the thriving ones. And, perhaps, we need to be prepared to have less bookstores down the road in three or five years because of the emergence of the e-book market and the growth of the e-retailers.

But certainly given the size of this channel in France, it would certainly not dramatically damage our business.

CONOR O'SHEA: Okay. Thank you.

ARNAUD LAGARDERE: I think it close the conference call. We would like to thank you all and see you on March 8. Have a good day. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this now concludes our conference call. Thank you all very much for attending.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mmbfra : Lagardere SCA | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120221e827001jm
  


 HD
 Q1  2012 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,267 words
   PD
24 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Apple Incorporated first quarter fiscal year 2012 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, IR CONTACT, APPLE INC: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer, and he will be joined by Apple CEO Tim Cook, and Treasurer Gary Whipfler for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you will hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products.

Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2011, and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates. I would now like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP OF FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC: Thank you, Nancy. We are thrilled to report the results of a tremendous quarter. Generating the highest quarterly revenue and earnings in Apple's history. We established numerous new records during the quarter, including all-time highs for quarterly iPhone, iPad, and Mac sales. We are very proud of these results and are extremely pleased with the momentum of our business.

Revenue for the quarter was $46.3 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 73%. The increase was fueled primarily by strong growth in iPhone, iPad, and Mac sales and was also aided by the inclusion of a 14th week in the quarter, which we indicated previously.

Operating margin was $17.3 billion, representing 37.4% of revenue. Net income was $13.1 billion, increasing 118% over the prior December quarter's results, and equaling half of the net income generated in all of fiscal 2011. The quarter's net income translated to earnings per share of $13.87.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I would like to begin with our Mac products and services. We established a new all time quarterly record with sales of 5.2 million Macs, setting new records for both desk tops and portables. Mac sales grew 26% year-over-year compared to IDC's latest published forecast of zero growth for the market overall in the December quarter.

While total Mac sales benefited from the 14th week, average weekly Mac sales were up strongly year-over-year across the quarter. Mac sales outgrew the market in each of our geographies, with particular strength in our Asia-Pacific segment, where sales were up 58% year-over-year. The increase in Mac sales was fueled by very strong growth of MacBook Pro and MacBook Air, as well as the continued strong performance of iMac. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory on a look-forward basis.

As we announced last month, the Mac APP store has been a great success with customers downloading over 100 million APPS in less than a year. The Mac APP store offers thousands of APPS in education, games, graphics and design, lifestyle, productivity, utilities and other categories, and has rapidly become a favorite shopping destination for Mac software.

Moving to our music products, we sold 15.4 million iPods compared to 19.4 million in the year-ago quarter. Total iPod sales were ahead of our expectations and iPod Touch continued to account for over half of all iPods sold. iPod's share of the US market for MP3 players remains at over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by NPD, and iPod continued to be the top selling MP3 player in most countries we track, based on the latest data published by GFK.

We ended the quarter within our target range of (technical difficulty) six weeks of I-pod channel inventory on a look-forward basis. The I-tunes store generated record results, with revenue in the quarter of $1.7 billion.

During the quarter, we launched I-tunes music stores in Brazil as well as 27 other countries in Latin America and Europe, now offering a catalog of over 20 million songs from major recording labels as well as thousands of independent artists. And I-tunes customers were amazingly busy on December 25, generating over 140 million downloads of APPS and content that day.

I would now like to turn to iPhone. We were thrilled to sell a record 37 million iPhones, compared to 16.2 million in the previous December quarter. This represents 128% year-over-year growth compared to 40% growth for the smart phone market overall in the December quarter, based on the latest published estimate from IDC. We experienced very strong iPhone sales growth in all of our segments thanks primarily to the tremendous popularity of iPhone 4S.

Customers have been captivated by Siri, which lets them use their voices to send messages, place phone calls, schedule appointments, and more. Siri understands what users say, knows what they mean, and helps them with every day task and information requests.

IPhone channel inventory increased sequentially by about 200,000 leaving us with a little under 6 million iPhones in the channel at the end of the quarter and below our target range of four to six weeks on a look-forward basis. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessory sales was $24.4 billion during the quarter, compared to $10.5 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 133%.

Nearly all of the top companies in the fortune 500 now approve and support iPhone on their networks. This includes companies in markets such as financial services, consumer products, transportation, health care, and insurance. IPhone is changing the way companies across the globe use mobile devices for work.

In addition to accessing e-mail, calendar and contacts, many of these companies are developing and deploying mission critical iPhone APPS to help improve productivity and give employees secure and immediate access to information anywhere.

Many companies around the world have thousands of employees using iPhone and business APPS. Some new examples include Royal Dutch Shell, Credit Suisse, Kimberly Clark, Saint Jude Medical, Providian, Tara Data, Nike, Danske Bank and Facebook. We were very pleased to begin shipping iPhone 4S in China and 21 additional countries earlier this month. iPhone 4S is now available in over 90 countries, making this our fastest iPhone rollout ever.

Turning to iPad, we were very pleased with record sales of 15.4 million iPads during the December quarter, compared to 7.3 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 111%. iPad was extremely popular with holiday season buyers, and we remain very excited about the potential for this market.

Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad accessories during the quarter increased by 99% year-over-year to over $9.1 billion compared to $4.6 billion in the year-ago quarter. iPod sales surpassed our expectations with sell-through exceeding sell-in, by about 200,000 units. We exited the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPad channel inventory on a look-forward basis.

iPad continues its unprecedented adoption in business. Nearly all the top companies within major Fortune 500 markets including pharma, manufacturing, hospitality, consumer products, financial service, health care and retail are actively using iPads to improve work flows, business processes and customer engagements.

We are delighted to learn how iPad enables businesses to change the way they work. Real estate agents at Coldwell Banker and Sotheby's access sales presentations and use custom iPad APPS in the field. Retail chains such as Bed, Bath and Beyond use iPads to deliver key business metrics on the sales floor.

Wineries are using iPads in their vineyards to call up weather data and soil profiles, record quality assessments and make decisions on the spot about whether to harvest their grapes. And in this past quarter, Chinese airline, EDA, has also deployed iPads to pilots and crew for flight manuals, documentation, and training.

iPad is extremely popular with students, teachers and administrators as a wonderfully engaging and powerful tool for teaching and learning. Today, 1.5 million iPads are already in use in education institutions, including over 1,000 one-to-one deployments.

We were very pleased to announce iBooks 2 last week, featuring iBook textbooks to deliver educational content that is more interactive, current and portable than ever from leading publishers including Houghton Mifflin, McGraw-Hill and Pierson, as well as thousands of independent publishers. And with iBook's author, anyone with a Mac can create iBook textbooks, cookbooks, picture books, and more, and publish them to Apple's iBook store. And over 600,000 copies of iBook's author have already been downloaded since last Thursday's announcement.

We were also happy to announce the all new iTunes U APP last week, allowing students using iPads to have access to the world's largest catalog of free educational content, along with over 20,000 education APPS and hundreds of thousands of books in the iBook store that can be used in their school curriculum. And as of today, over 3 million copies of iTunes U APP have already been downloaded.

Combining iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, we surpassed 315 million cumulative IOS device sales selling more than 62 million in the December quarter. We were very pleased to launch iOS5 and iCloud during the quarter. Customers are loving the new features of iOS5 including notification center, iMessage and reminders.

And iCloud is off to a great start with more than 85 million customers signed up as of today. With iCloud, customers can store their music and photos, and documents, and keep their personal information and content in sync across all their devices, automatically, and seamlessly.

The APP store continues to be incredibly successful with over 550,000 APPS available including 170,000 APPS specifically for iPad. We are thrilled that by the end of this month, our developers will have earned over $4 billion cumulatively from APP store sales. Including over $700 million in the December quarter alone.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores which also generated record results. Revenue was $6.1 billion, an increase of 59% over the prior year. The stores experienced very strong year-over-year growth in iPhone, iPad, and Mac sales, establishing new records for all three. IPhone sales were extremely robust, more than doubling year-over-year, thanks primarily to the very successful launch of the iPhone 4S.

Sales of iPad were also up significantly year-over-year, thanks to continued strength of iPad 2 and strong holiday season buying. The stores also sold 1.1 million Macs compared to 851,000 in the year-ago quarter. And about half the Macs sold in our stores during the December quarter, were to customers who had never owned a Mac before.

We opened four new stores in the quarter, including our spectacular new store at Grand Central, as well as three stores in Europe, bringing us to a total of 361 stores. With an average of 358 stores opened, average revenue per store was $17.1 million, compared to $12 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 43%.

Segment margin reached a new record of over $1.8 billion, and 30.3% of retail revenue, compared to $1 billion and 26.2% in the year-ago quarter. Store traffic reached new record levels with 110 million visitors, compared to 76 million visitors in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 45%.

That translates to an average of almost 22,000 visitors per store per week, reflecting incredible interest in our stores and our products. Our Easy Pay checkout process has significantly enhanced our ability to handle such high customer traffic levels. And now with personal pickup, customers can order Macs, iPods or iPads from the Apple online store and pick up most in stock products within an hour at the Apple retail store of their choice, making shopping for Apple products that much easier and faster.

Total company gross margin was 44.7%, which was 470 basis points higher than our guidance. About half this difference was driven by lower commodity and other product costs. Another quarter was due to leverage on the higher revenue and some one-time items benefiting the quarter. And the remainder was due to better-than-expected mix, largely from the record iPhone sales.

Operating expenses were $3.36 billion, and included $357 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $137 million, and our tax rate for the quarter was 25.25%. Turning to our cash, our cash plus short term and long term marketable securities totaled $97.6 billion at the end of the December quarter compared to $81.6 billion at the end of the September quarter, a sequential increase of $16 billion.

About $64 billion of the cash was offshore at the end of the December quarter. Cash flow from operations was over $17.5 billion. We are actively discussing uses of our cash balance and don't have anything specific to announce today. In the meantime, we continue to be very disciplined with the cash and are not letting it burn a hole in our pockets.

As we move ahead into the March quarter, which will be a 13-week quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenues to be about $32.5 billion, compared to $24.7 billion in the March quarter last year. We expect gross margin to be about 42%, reflecting approximately $60 million related to stock-based compensation expense.

We expect OpEx to be about $3.05 billion, including about $350 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $125 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.25%. We are targeting EPS of about $8.50.

In closing, we are extremely pleased with customer response to our products and the record-breaking results in the December quarter. We launched iPhone 4S to rave reviews, delivered iOS and iCloud to millions of customers and surpassed all previous records for quarterly iPhone, iPad and Mac sales. We are very proud to be delivering the strongest product lineup in Apple's history and we are extremely enthusiastic about our new product pipeline. With that, I would like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter. We would like to ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions.). Ben Reitzes with Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks a lot. Tim and Peter, can you describe the iPhone momentum as you ended the quarter and what is included for the iPhone in your guidance, and your enthusiasm for the product as we head into the first half of the calendar year? Any more detail and metrics would be helpful. Thank you so much.

TIM COOK, CHIEF OPERATIONS OFFICER, APPLE INC: Sure, Ben. This is Tim. We were thrilled with the 37 million iPhones that we sold. It is up 128% against a market rate of growth of about 40%, according to IDC's latest projection. And this is substantially above the 20 million unit previous record.

We would attribute it to a -- just a breathtaking customer reception of the iPhone 4S with iOS5 and key features such as Siri and this incredible camera with advanced optics. Customers are absolutely loving this product.

We also attribute it to -- we made a very bold bet entering the quarter as to what the demand would be. And as it turns out, despite it being a very bold bet, we were short of supply throughout the quarter, and did end with a significant backlog, as Peter has said. That situation has improved some since the end of the quarter. But we still are short in some key geographies currently.

I would also attribute the performance to the delayed purchases from the prior quarter, as we discussed in the October call, as people were anticipating a new iPhone being announced. I think we made the correct decision to go with a broad range of iPhones. This turned out to be of benefit, as we thought it would. And of course the 14th week as Peter said is a part of this. Although everyone knew that, as we did, as well, and had factored that into our guidance.

Geographically, we saw strength in literally, in every key region. But in particular, I would call out the US and Japan, which got going early in the quarter, and had most sales -- many more sales days than most countries. I would also say that I was particularly [--fused] with the iPhone sales in greater China, particularly considering that we did not launch the iPhone 4S in China until in January, and therefore had no sales into mainland China during last quarter.

And so we could not be happier. We thought we were betting bold, as I think many of you would have thought if you would have known what we were doing, but as it turns out we didn't bet high enough. Our customers are loving iPhone, and we're very happy with that.

BEN REITZES: My follow-up is, as we're doing the math here, it seems like the ASP is up sequentially for the iPhone, so it seems like there was a very good mix of the 4S and the higher capacity 4S. Could you just comment a little bit on that versus the iPhone 4 which you cut the price of?

TIM COOK: The iPhone 4S was the most popular iPhone during the quarter. And consistent with most launches, we typically see a higher mix at the front end of a launch.

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. Congratulations.

OPERATOR: Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you, just to follow up on the iPhone discussion, Tim, can you talk about whether the pent-up demand at the end of December and today is those countries like US and Japan that had the phone all quarter, or is it just countries that recently received and are able to sell the phone?

So if you can talk about that, and then the second part would be, does the component environment and your production capacity or your suppliers capacity allow you to address that catch-up demand, address China, which is new this quarter, you know, and also help you start to rebuild inventory in March, or are there any constraints that you see in the near term?

TIM COOK: You know, I don't want to comment on current sales trends other than -- because we've included, obviously, that in our guidance. But I would, given that we just launched in China, I would say the demand there has been staggering. We are selling through our reseller stores and our online store. We're not currently selling through a retail store. And the demand is off the charts. And so we're very happy with the demand response there.

The other countries that we launched in earlier this quarter were smaller countries, in a demand sense. So, we will see how the quarter goes, from a supply/demand point of view. We did make progress as we moved from the end of the quarter, until now, as I alluded to earlier, and have caught up in some countries, but there is still some that we are not caught up. So, we will see how we do going forward.

In terms of the component environment, generally speaking, the component environment is favorable. That was one of the things that allowed us to over achieve on gross margin. And we would predict that component environment stays favorable on most key commodities, with the exception of hard drives, which as you know was very much affected by the tragic situation in Thailand.

And I don't predict Apple having a material supply issue during the quarter, but we will pay more for drives during the quarter, and that is reflected in our guidance that Peter gave earlier.

KATY HUBERTY: Thank you very much. Great quarter.

OPERATOR: Richard Gardner with Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Okay, thanks. I was actually going to ask about the hard drive situation. I would love to just get a little bit more detail there, in terms of whether it did have any meaningful impact on Mac sales during the December quarter, Tim. And you mentioned that you expect to pay more for drives. I guess you don't expect it to have it to expect it to have any sort of revenue for the March quarter?

TIM COOK: Yes. For the December quarter, Rich, there was not a material supply or cost impact to any of our product lines as a result of the [launch]. For the March quarter, we're not expecting any material supply impact. However, in the hard drive area, prices have increased, and we have included those cost increases in our guidance that Peter provided earlier.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And then for the December quarter, you obviously, you saw some pretty dramatic declines in key components like NAN, down about 10% and DRAM down almost 40%. Can you talk about, within that context, how favorable you expect pricing to be for some of those key commodities here in the March quarter? And whether these -- the overall industry shortage of HDDs is having a material impact on pricing and other categories?

TIM COOK: Last quarter, not confirming the percentages that you gave out, but we did receive better costs than we had rolled in our guidance on -- particularly on displays, and NAN flash and DRAM and we would expect that NAN, DRAM and most LCDs would continue to be in a position that supply exceeds demand for the industry.

And therefore, those price trends should continue to be favorable in this quarter, and we reflected that in our guidance. The big exception is the hard drive, which I pointed out earlier, which is constrained on an industry-wide basis. And where I believe we can navigate the supply issue, that we are paying more for them, and that's rolled in our guidance.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rich, it is Peter. I would like to just talk a little bit about the gross margin guidance to put the component environment in context. We do see that helping us sequentially in the March quarter, but overall, we would anticipate our gross margin to be down by about 270 basis points.

And we see that largely coming from the loss of leverage on the sequentially lower revenue, on the December to March quarter. The non-recurrence of one-time items which benefited us in the December quarter and the stronger US dollar that we've seen.

RICHARD GARDNER: Since you touched on it Peter, can you talk about how big the nonrecurring items were as a gross margin benefit in December?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, they, along with the leverage, the two of those together represented about a quarter of the upside that we saw to our guidance. About half of it came from better commodity and other product costs, and the remaining quarter came from better mix, largely the iPhone sales.

RICHARD GARDNER: Great. Thank you. Congrats.

OPERATOR: Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Okay, great, thanks. I have a question on the iPad. Obviously a very strong shipment number for the December quarter. But with that said, did you see any impact at all from some of the new lower-priced tablets on the market? And I guess looking forward into 2012, how do you think about competition from these lower-priced content subsidized tablets, like that of Amazon's models in 2012?

TIM COOK: We are really happy with the 15.4 million iPads that we were able to sell and as Peter said, we did take down the channel inventory slightly there, so the underlying sell-through was slightly higher than that. This is consistent with our long-term belief that we've had since before we introduced the product, that this is a huge opportunity for Apple over time.

And as I've said before, I thoroughly believe and many others in the company believe that there will come a day that the tablet market in units is up larger than the PC market. In fact, it is interesting to note that in the US, it's clear from the IDC's recent data on desk top PCs in the US that tablets exceeded desk top PC sales last quarter in the US. And so I think you can already see different indicators that there is significant momentum in this space.

In terms of our competitiveness, the ecosystem for iPad is in a class by itself. We strongly believed in optimizing applications from day one to take advantage of the larger canvas, and we now have APPS totaling over 170,000 available for customers. And that compares to what appears to us to only be a few hundred for the competition.

And so I think people really want to do multiple things with their tablets, and therefore, we don't really see these limited function tablets and E-readers being in the same category. There's clearly customers that will buy those. I think they will sell a fair number of units. But I don't think that people that want an iPad will settle for a limited function.

And in terms of other tablets, you know, last year was supposed to be the year of the tablet. And I think most people would agree, it was the year of the iPad for the second year in a row. And so, we're just going to continue to innovate like crazy in this area. And we think we can continue to compete with anyone that is currently shipping tablets or that might enter in the future.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Great. And then, I guess, digging into the iPhone number a bit more, you gave us a lot of great color on that performance, but could you dig in a bit more to what you're learning in terms of iPhone elasticity with the new price points for the 3GS, in both the post and pre-paid markets.

I know in the past you've talked about the iPhone and the prepaid markets as sort of an evolving strategy that you all were approaching with sort of an open mind. How are you thinking about that now that you've had a full quarter with these lower price points, and obviously some success there?

TIM COOK: Each of the models, the 3GS, the iPhone 4, and the iPhone 4S were important in achieving the 37 million total units. And so, we're glad to cover the broad range with great products. But, the iPhone 4S was clearly the most popular among those.

In the post pay markets, as you know there is a much smaller difference between what the customer pays in each of these. It's larger in the prepaid markets. And so, it is too early to tell, given we just started this in October, as to how this will play out over time. But we're thrilled with the total result. And you can bet that we are into details in every single country in the world trying to learn what we can learn to adjust, maybe to do better into the future.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Sanford Bernstein we will hear from Toni Sacconaghi.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Yes, thank you. Peter or Tim, I would like to follow-up on your comment that you're actively discussing uses of cash. Is that any different, quite frankly, than what you've been doing historically? Or is that statement meant to suggest that you're thinking more constructively about cash than have you historically?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Toni, it is Peter. We have always discussed, internally as a management team and with our board, our cash. We recognize that the cash is growing for all of the right reasons. And I would characterize our discussions today as active, about what makes the most sense to do with the cash balance. But, we don't have anything to announce specifically today.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Is there a time frame, or will you actually tell us that you have finished those discussions, or you know, is there a process for which there is an ending and you will inform us about that?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: When we have something to announce, Toni, we will announce it. But I want to say, again, that we are actively discussing the best uses of our cash balance.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then on my follow-up, I was wondering, I want to revisit the gross margin question. I think in each of the last 10 years, your gross margin has actually gone up from Q1 to Q2.

I think the last three years, which is more representative of your mix, it's kind of been going up by 200 basis points. So, by saying it's going to go down 270 basis points, that's kind of bucking normal seasonality by 400 to 500 basis points. It sounds like the one-time item is about 50 basis points. Is the loss of leverage that significant? Or what am I missing?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The factors that, Toni, that are going to affect our sequential decline are primarily three. They are the loss of leverage from the revenue, so we reported $46.3 billion this quarter, which included a 14th week. We see our revenues being $32.5 billion next quarter. So, against our fixed costs, that would have a significant impact. We did have some one-time items in the December quarter which won't re-occur. And the dollar is much stronger.

So, those are the principle three reasons. I would also say that $44.7 billion is a high high, higher than we have seen since I've been with Apple in 15 years. And it's hard to compare this year versus last because we're in different commodity cycles and different currency levels, and where we are with our product cycles as well.

Last year, we did have a sequential increase in iPhones and that was a big contributor to our going up sequentially. We don't see that reccurring this year. Especially from the high of $44.7 billion.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon. And I will add my congratulations. So, we just got back from CES and everyone has a connected TV trying to solve problems that only Apple can solve and yet when we look at your Apple TV offering it seems a little dated compared to what is on the market. Just from a high level how should we be thinking of your strategy in the living room?

TIM COOK: Gene, it is Tim. The Apple TV product is doing actually very well. In last fiscal year that ended in September, we sold a bit above 2.8 million units. And just in this past quarter, the December quarter, we set a new quarterly record for Apple TV at over 1.4 million.

But in the scheme of things, if you dollarize this in revenues, we still classify this as a hobby. However, we continue to add things to it. And if you're using the latest one, I don't know about you, but I couldn't live without it. And so I think it is a fantastic product. And we continue to pull the string to see where it takes us. But other than that, I don't have any comments.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And then Tim, you've been CEO for four months now, and I wonder what your early read on the new job has been. Has anything surprised you? Have you come across anything that you didn't expect?

TIM COOK: You know I love Apple and it's just a reminder every day of how much of a privilege it is to work with a team of people that are so incredible. And how lucky I am.

GENE MUNSTER: But from like a strategic standpoint, or anything that you can add as far as your first four months?

TIM COOK: No, you can see our results, and I think the team is doing a fantastic job. We feel very good about where we are.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thanks. And congratulations.

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, thank you. Peter, to start with you, when you talked about the cash balances that you'll announce something when you'll announce it, but could you give us a little perspective on how at least you're framing the differences, opportunities, in terms of dividends, and buybacks?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Keith, we're examining all uses of our cash balance. What we might do, in the supply chain, what we can do from an acquisition perspective, and otherwise. And so I don't have any perspective to share you with today specifically on dividends or buybacks, other than, again, we are actively discussing the cash balance, and in the meantime, we're not letting it burn a hole in our pockets.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Tim, then try one for you. One thing you didn't mention much in your prepared remarks, and subsequent questions was discussions around iCloud. And I just wanted to try to get some perspective. A, what's your perception on how it is adding value to Apple's products, and then B, as importantly, what are the metrics that you guys are using to determine if it indeed is driving success surrounding the various products?

TIM COOK: I think Peter shared earlier the number of customers that had signed up for iCloud, and it's already over 85 million. So, it's incredible that this has happened in just in, you know, just a few month period of time. We're thrilled with it, and the response from customers has been incredible.

Now, it solved a lot of problems that customers were having and made their lives incredible -- you know, much, much easier. And so I see it as a -- it was a fundamental shift, recognizing that people had numerous devices, and they wanted the bulk of their content in the cloud, and easily accessible from all of the devices, and you know, I think we're seeing the response from that, and with 85 million customers in just three months, it is a very, very important part. It's just not a product. It's a strategy for the next decade.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks very much. I wanted to ask about iPhone distribution in the quarter and outlook for distribution as we move forward over the next several quarters. Can you give us an update in terms of where you are in distribution for the phone, and in terms of China, what are the prospects for expanding your reach from a carrier standpoint in China over the next couple quarters?

TIM COOK: We are now over 130,000 points of sale throughout the world. That's up about 35% on a year-over-year basis. And so we have consistently added points of distribution. That's both adding carriers that had captured distribution, or owned distribution, as well as key retailers, which are particularly important in some markets.

We added carriers last quarter with KDDI in Japan, and Sprint in the United States, and both of those carriers, they can speak for their own results, but we are extremely pleased with both companies, and while the incumbents that were in the market also did incredibly well. And in terms of China, China UNICOM continues to be a very key partner. I've got nothing to announce today on an expansion there, but as I've consistently said, China is an extremely important market for us and we continue to look at how to grow it further.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Okay, thanks. And for my follow-up, I wanted to ask about your revenue guidance for the March quarter. If you assume kind of weekly sales or adjust for the 14th week, it looks like you're guiding revenue down about 25% quarter-on-quarter. However, you started the quarter with a pretty significant backlog of iPhones, et cetera, pretty strong momentum. Why would revenue be down more than normal seasonal or historical seasonal into March?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Chris, this is Peter. I will take that. Let me first start with units and then I will talk about some points on revenue. IPhones, we would expect to have a significant year-over-year increase, and also be down sequentially, as reported from the 14-week December quarter. For iPad, we would expect to have a significant year-over-year increase and also be down sequentially, as reported from the 14-week December quarter, and the end of the gift-giving season.

And for Mac and iPod, we would expect to be down sequentially consistent with our typical seasonality. From a revenue perspective, I completely understand the question that you're asking. I want to talk to you about five reasons why I expect us to be down a greater percent sequentially this year than we were last.

The first, the December quarter this year included a 14th week, which was the week between Christmas and New Year's. That week accounted for approximately 1/14th of the December quarter's revenue.

Second, that week, between Christmas and New Year's fell within the March quarter last year and it will not be included this year, and sales in that week are typically greater than the average for the weekly sales in the March quarter. So, when we think about our March quarter on a sequential basis, we would have loved to have had that week in the quarter that we're now heading into.

Last year, we increased the iPhone channel inventory by about 1.7 million units in the December quarter -- or the March quarter, so that benefited the quarter, and reduced the comparable. The fourth, our December quarter results this fiscal year, benefited from the launch of the iPhone 4S. We believe there was significant pent-up demand for the iPhone 4S heading into the December quarter, and it has been our fastest iPhone rollout ever.

The previous iPhone launch took place at the end of June, 2010. So in the year-ago December quarter marked the second full quarter of new iPhone availability. So we had some differences in launch timing.

And finally, the US dollar has strengthened in recent weeks, particularly against the Euro, and we expect this to have an impact on our sequential compare. Last year, the dollar was relatively flat, within the comparable time period. All that being said, we just reported an amazing quarter, and we feel very good about the momentum of our business.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Very clear. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross with Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. Tim, I had a question, and actually, Peter, I realize you're not going to talk specifically about cash, but with regard to acquisitions, perhaps you can talk a little bit about your strategy behind some of the acquisitions, including the most recent one which was Anabit.

TIM COOK: Shannon, we have done acquisitions where -- that tended to be smaller or medium-sized companies that have just great engineering and other talent, a great start on a product or a technology that we'd like to bring into Apple, and sometimes including IP.

And that's really the acquisitions that we've done. We tend to do several a year. We're very, very disciplined in how we think about this, and how we do it. And I think our track record here has been very strong.

SHANNON CROSS: And you can talk a little bit about how they're integrated in? I'm just kind of curious, too, since there have been several sort of semi-related acquisitions that you've made, I mean do they become encompassed within Apple or do you run them as stand alone divisions?

TIM COOK: Shannon, we don't believe in lots of divisions, like a lot of companies do, and so we run the company as one, instead of a lot of mini companies. The semiconductor team works for Bob Mansfield, as does all of the hardware engineering for the whole company. And so, Bob and his team are integrating Anabit into that team. Anabit has some fantastic technical talent and we're really fortunate to have them join us.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: From Credit Suisse, we will hear from Kulbinder Garcha.

KULBINDER GARCHA, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Both of my questions are kind of linked to geographic expansion. Maybe for Tim, I take it you're focused on China but it is also like, given what you said, you may be at 230, or 235 carriers now. There are about 500 carriers in the world, and I'm just wondering what your ambitions are, and what you think the reality is over the next 12 to 18 months of adding at least a sizable share of them?

And I had a similar question on geographic expansion, Tim. Just in terms of on a country rollout, it seems that you have at least addressed part of China on the retail side. And it sounds that Brazil is next. But when can we look toward to you maybe addressing markets like India or Russia more aggressively with your retail presence? Thanks.

TIM COOK: We are today selling in Brazil through an online store and reseller partners, including some very key carrier partners. We're selling in Russia through carrier partners and reseller partners. And we're selling in India through some carrier partners and reseller partners. And so we're in all of those countries today.

But I have tried to be very clear in the past, and I will do so again, that we have a ton more energy in the China market today. That doesn't mean that there is a lack of effort or focus on the others. It just means that it's less than what we're investing in China today.

On the second country on the list of those four, for us, would be Brazil. I think there is a huge opportunity for us there. And we've more than begun to go deeper into Brazil. But I don't want to signal that means Apple retail would be there, because I don't envision that occurring in the near term. And we're -- India, where it is small, the revenue went up over three times last quarter. But that's on a small base.

And so we're beginning to see traction in most of these, but we recognize we have to focus to deeply understand the point that we can really get to a large revenue figure like greater China currently is. In terms of more carriers, we had been adding carriers. I anticipate that we will continue to add carriers. We have nothing specific to announce today.

But you can bet that we're looking at the same list that you are. In terms of major carriers there, the number is much smaller than the number you quoted. As you know, there is a lot of smaller carriers on there. And the same thing with countries. There' re many smaller countries. But all of those have important. And I'd like to get into all of them over time.

KULBINDER GARCHA: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: From J.P. Morgan we will go to Mark Moskowitz.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. Tim, I want to come back to the tablet market here. Obviously the iPhone was scintillating in terms of the growth, but I think the iPad growth also really out paced a lot of our expectations, and the question really is, it's kind of a loaded question.

The question is really around do you think that Apple actually benefited from some of these lower cost, reduced feature set tablets coming into the market, where folks came in to check them out and realized, not really that good, so they trade up to the iPad, and do you see that maybe happening as well with the MacBook Air this year? Because this year seems like to be the Ultrabook's version of let's try to be like Apple as well.

TIM COOK: When I looked at the data, particularly in the US, on a weekly basis after Amazon launched the Kindle Fire, and I wouldn't, in my view, there wasn't an obvious effect on the numbers plus or minus. The theory that you've got, I have heard clearly from some customers, that that occurred, that they went in thinking they would buy that. They looked at it, decided to buy an iPad.

Whether that's happening on a very, very large basis, I don't know. Again, my own view is looking at our data in the US, there was no obvious change in the data. For what it's worth. That's how I see it.

There is cannibalization clearly of the Mac by the iPad. But we continue to believe there is much more cannibalization of windows PCs by the iPad, and there's many more of them cannibalized. And so we love that trend. We think it is great for us.

The thing that is very different about the iPad is, you can see it beginning to appear virtually everywhere. The enterprise has adopted it in a very large percent of the Fortune 500, as Peter talked about earlier. That number is also quite large when you look at the Global 500.

In education, in K-12, we sold twice the number of iPads as we did Macs. And generally speaking, education adopts new technologies fairly slowly, so that's somewhat surprising. And of course, the consumer is -- has moved in a huge way to iPad. And so it's winning market by market by market.

I think that consumers that go in and look at it and think about the ecosystem, and the huge advantages, and the overall customer experience, I think we will win a fair number of those, and I think you can see that in the results. And so we couldn't be happier with doing over 15 million, and I think it's remarkable that we sold over 55 million iPads, and we've only been in the business since April of 2011, I think, when we shipped the first one. Or 2010, excuse me.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: And then the other question I have is given your customer data, are you seeing any sort of phenomenon now where because of the accelerated refresh cycles, the widened gap in terms of what Apple is giving to the customer base, versus the competition's meager efforts, if you will, are you seeing accelerated refresh rates within your customer base, in terms of someone who buys an iPhone, maybe they're buying it quicker or maybe they're also buying now a MacBook Air or an iPad. So, you're seeing an accelerated refresh rate or a halo effect?

TIM COOK: In the enterprise space we've seen, as an example, we've seen iPhones sort of be a catalyst, and the iPad moves after the iPhone, and in several accounts, we've seen the Mac follow that. And so there are clear examples where one product has pulled the other, pull the other.

And you know, at a macro level, how much it is happening is very difficult to put our fingers on. But many customers, consumers, enterprise, education, they're all pointing that out. And as you know, we've seen that phenomenon before, with the halo that the iPod created for the Mac, back at the early 2002, 2003, 2004 range. And so, it is not a phenomenon that is new to us.

OPERATOR: Michael Abramsky with RBC Capital Markets.

MICHAEL ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks very much. Tim, Android versus iPhone, is this in your view, becoming a two-horse race similar to Mac versus Windows? And how do you see the sustainability of your integrated model versus what happened in terms of the growth of the OEM model in the PC market?

TIM COOK: I wouldn't classify it like Mac and Windows at all. You know, the Mac has outgrown the market for over 20 quarters in a row. But still has a single digit percentage of the worldwide market. Where IOS, if you look at phones and tablets, and the iPod touch, we've sold over 315 million IOS devices.

And so I think this compares very favorable to any comparison. In 60 -- over 62 million of those were done in the last quarter alone. I don't have comparable numbers, Mike, on Android. I haven't found a way to get very crisp quarterly reporting, like we do, that it is straight forward and transparent.

However, you can see from a momentum point of view, if you look at the NPD data that just came out a few days ago, it shows in the US, and this is just looking at October, November, and so this had part of our launch in October and all of it in November, it shows the -- just the iPhone -- looking at phones not total IOS, it shows iPhone at 43% and Android at 47.

The Nielsen data that just came out a few days ago shows iPhone in the October, November, December time frame at 45%, versus Android at 47%. And the comp scores data that also came out on October November shows iPhone at 42% versus Android at 41%.

And so it seems like all of the data that I've seen in the US would say that it's a very close race in iPhone. I think on the iPad side, although I don't have specific numbers to share from third parties, I think that all of us inherently believe that iPad is way ahead there. And there is really no comparable products to the iPod Touch out there. And so IOS is doing extremely well.

I wouldn't say it's a two-horse race. There is a horse in Redmond that always suits up and always runs, and will keep running, and there's other players that we can never count out. And so what we focus on is innovating. And making the world's best products. And we will just keep on doing that. And somewhat ignore how many horses there are. And we just want to stay ahead and be the lead one.

MICHAEL ABRAMSKY: Okay. Just as a quick follow-up, there's two developments in the market in smart phones that you sort of haven't broached yet, but Android has at least approached which would be 4G and larger screens. In the past, you've articulated a fairly firm view both on the iPad and the iPhone of display dimensions for example. You mentioned that earlier in this call in iPad.

Has the popularity for example of larger screens on Android phones changed or impacted, for example, your view? And the same thing on 4G. Obviously some of these phones have challenges to battery life. But what are your thoughts there?

TIM COOK: You know, I wouldn't comment on the future road map. As I'm sure that's a shock to you. But I would point out that we just sold a record 37 million iPhones. And so I think there's an incredible number of people, and we could have sold more if we would have had more supply. But there's a lot of people out there that really love what we're doing.

MICHAEL ABRAMSKY: Okay Tim. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a pod cast on the I-tunes store. As a web cast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112. Or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 1789848.

And these replays will be available beginning at approximately 5.00 pm. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Doweling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570. And I am at 408-974-5420. And thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120207e81o006hg
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Apple Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,891 words
   PD
18 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone. Welcome to this Apple Incorporated fourth-quarter fiscal year 2011 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, APPLE INC: Thank you, good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2010, the Form 10-Q for the first 3 quarters of fiscal 2011, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates. I'd now like to turn the call over to Apple's CEO, Tim Cook, for introductory remarks.

TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE INC: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone. This is our first earnings call since the passing of Steve Jobs. The world has lost a visionary, a creative genius, and an amazing human being. Steve was a great leader and mentor, and inspired everyone at Apple to do extraordinary things. His spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple, and we are dedicated to continuing the amazing work that he loved so much.

Only Apple brings together software, hardware, and services into such a powerful and integrated experience for our customers. As we move forward, we will continue doing that with relentless focus. I'd like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for all of the condolences and expressions of support that we have received following Steve's passing. With that, I'd like to turn over the call to Peter to discuss our Q4 results. Peter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP OF FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC: Thank you, Tim. We are very pleased to report record September quarter revenue and earnings. We set a new all-time quarterly record for Mac and iPad sales, and we established a new September quarter record for iPhone sales. We are very proud of these results, and with the momentum of our business. Revenue for the quarter was $28.3 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 39%. The year-over-year increase was sealed primarily by strong growth in iPad, Mac, and iPhone sales. Operating margin was $8.7 billion, representing 30.8% of revenue. Net income was $6.6 billion, increasing 54% year-over-year, and translating to earnings per share of $7.05.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with our Mac products and services. We established a new all-time quarterly record with sales of 4.89 million Macs, exceeding the previous record set in the last December quarter by 760,000 Macs, representing a 26% increase over the year-ago quarter's results. That is more than 6 times IDC's most recently-published forecast of 4% growth for the PC market overall in the September quarter. Mac sales increased strongly in each of our operating segments, led by Asia Pacific, with growth of 61% year-over-year.

The increase in Mac sales was sealed by the very strong growth in MacBook Air, as well as the continued strong performance of MacBook Pro. In July, we updated the MacBook Air with the next generation processors, high speed Thunderbolt I/O technology and a backlit keyboard. And while the portables represented 74% of the total Mac mix, we also generated record desktop sales in the quarter, primarily due to continued strength of iMac. We launched Mac OS X Lion on July 20, and customer response has been tremendous with over 6 million Lion downloads during the September quarter. We began and ended the quarter with between 3 and 4 weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Moving to our music products, we sold 6.6 million iPods, compared to almost 9.1 million in the year-ago quarter. Though down year-over-year, total iPod sales were ahead of our expectations, and iPod Touch continued to account for over half of all iPods sold. iPod's share of the US market for MP3 players remains at over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by MPD, and iPods continue to be the top-selling MP3 player in most countries we track, based on the latest data published by GSK. We ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPod channel inventory.

The iTunes store generated record results, with revenue in the quarter of almost $1.5 billion. The iTunes catalog continues to grow and customers have downloaded over 16 billion songs and 650 million TV shows to date. We've also been very pleased with the growing popularity of the iBookstore with over 180 million downloads of iBooks to date.

I'd now like to turn to iPhone. We were very pleased to sell 17.1 million iPhones compared to 14.1 million in the previous September quarter. This represents 21% year-over-year growth, and a new September quarter record. We experienced particularly strong iPhone sales growth in our Asia Pacific segment, where iPhone sales more than doubled year-over-year. We were pleased with the iPhone sales growth, as we prepared for the transition to the iPhone 4S.

We expected iPhone sell-through to decline sequentially from the June quarter, as a result of new product rumors following the announcement at our developers conference in June that iOS5 and iCloud would become available in the Fall. As we predicted, iPhone sell-through did decline across the quarter, especially in the second half, as new product speculation intensified. We ended the quarter with about 5.75 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential decline of about 180,000, which placed us within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPhone channel inventory. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessory sales was $11 billion during the quarter, compared to $8.8 billion in the year ago quarter, an increase of 24%.

Given the October launch of the iPhone 4S, we opted to defer new carrier and country additions from the September quarter until after the launch. As we indicated 2 weeks ago, we were very pleased to have recently added Sprint and KDDI to our carrier lineup. These additions bring us to 230 carriers in 105 countries. For the sixth consecutive time, iPhone ranked highest in Consumer Reports' wireless consumer smartphone customer satisfaction survey, achieving the highest ratings for overall satisfaction, as well as for performance, ease of operations, features, and design. iPhone continues to be adopted as a standard across the enterprise, with 93% of the Fortune 500 deploying or testing the device, up from 91% last quarter and 60% of the Global 500 testing or deploying iPhone, up from 57% last quarter.

A recent example of iPhone's enterprise success is Lowe's. Lowe's is in the process of rolling out over 40,000 iPhones with a custom application to allow their store associates to execute realtime inventory checks, product orders, and interact with customers with how-to videos. Additional examples of companies around the world supporting iPhone on their corporate networks include Loreal, Royal Bank of Scotland, SAP, Texas Instruments, Jacobs Engineering Group, Tenet Healthcare, Jaguar-Land Rover, Takeda Pharmaceutical, Lincoln National, and CSX Corporation.

And of course we're thrilled to begin shipping iPhone 4S this month. We are extremely enthusiastic about Siri, the iPhone 4 intelligent assistant that helps you get things done by just asking, and we think customers will love the performance of the iPhone 4S's dual-core A5 chip, all-new camera and full 1080p HD video recording. Now shipping in 7 countries, we are working hard to get iPhone 4S in customers' hands as quickly as possible, and look forward to rolling it out in 22 more countries by the end of this month.

Turning to iPad, we continue to be thrilled with its incredible momentum. We set a new record with sales of 11.1 million iPads during the September quarter, compared to 4.2 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 166%. We said from the beginning that the tablet market is a huge opportunity for Apple, and we're very excited with our current performance and the tremendous customer enthusiasm for iPad. We launched iPad 2 in an additional 28 countries, ending the September quarter with distribution in a total of 90 countries.

Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad accessories during the quarter was $6.9 billion compared to $2.8 billion in the year ago quarter, an increase of 146%. We ended the quarter with about 2.5 million iPads in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 1.45 million, which placed us within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks. Its been just 18 months since we introduced iPad and the pace at which businesses worldwide are adopting this technology is unprecedented. Today, 92% of the Fortune 500 are testing or deploying iPad within their enterprises, up from 86% last year. Internationally, 52% of the Global 500 are testing or deploying iPad, up from 47% last quarter.

Every day we learn about innovative new ways our enterprise customers are using iPad. The airline industry is a great example of the momentum we're seeing. United Continental Holdings is putting iPads in every cockpit to replace heavy paper-based flight bags, and Japan's All Nippon Airways is now using iPads in training programs for flight attendants. Sonic Automotive is using iPad for customer check-in at the service department, and also to provide analytics to regional managers. Aflac, Biogen and General Mills have developed internal apps that their field sales teams leverage daily and technicians at Siemens Energy are bringing iPads along when they do maintenance work at the top of their wind turbines.

Combining iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, we surpassed 0.25 billion cumulative IOS device sales in the September quarter. We were very pleased to begin delivering iOS5 last week and customers are loving its many new features including notification center, iMessage, Newsstand and Reminders. We were also very excited to launch iCloud last week, with breakthrough services including iTunes in the Cloud, PhotoStream, and Documents in the Cloud. We believe iCloud is the easiest way for customers to manage their content, going far beyond anything else available today and early reviews have been excellent. The App store continues to be incredibly successful, with over 500,000 Apps available, and over 18 billion downloads to date. We expanded the App store to 33 additional countries during the September quarter, ending with a total of 123 countries.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue was $3.6 billion, an increase of 1% over the prior-year quarter. The stores experienced very strong year-over-year growth in Mac and iPad sales, which was largely offset by a decline in iPhone sales, given the tough comparisons to the year-ago quarter when iPhone 4 was launched, and compounded by speculation about a new iPhone this year. The stores generated record-breaking Mac results with sales reaching 1.1 million compared to 874,000 in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 25%, and about half the Macs sold in our stores during the September quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before.

We opened 30 new stores in the quarter, 21 of which were outside the United States. On the last weekend of the quarter, we opened 7 stores in 6 countries, including our first store in Hong Kong. With our highest opening day for Mac sales ever, our Hong Kong store joins our 5 other China stores as the highest traffic and among our highest revenue stores in the world. We ended the quarter with a total of 357 stores, with an average of 336 stores open, average revenue per store was $10.7 million compared to $11.8 million in the year-ago quarter.

Retail segment margin was $679 million compared to $917 million in the year-ago quarter. Store traffic continues to be very strong. We hosted a record 77.5 million visitors in the September quarter. As we look ahead to fiscal 2012, we will continue to focus on international expansion. In total, we expect to open about 40 stores with approximately three-quarters of them outside the United States. We will also be expanding or replacing higher volume stores, primarily in the US, that are simply too constrained to deliver our desired customer experience.

Total Company gross margin was 40.3%, which was 230 basis points higher than our guidance. This difference was almost entirely due to lower component and other product costs. Operating expenses were $2.67 billion and included $253 million of stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $81 million, the tax rate for the quarter was 24.7%.

Turning to cash, our cash for short-term and long term marketable securities totaled $81.6 billion at the end of the September quarter, compared to $76.2 billion at the end of the June quarter, a sequential increase of $5.4 billion. This increase was net of cash paid for the acquisition of Nortel patents and the Nokia settlement during the September quarter. Cash flow from operations was $10.4 billion, an increase of 84% year-over-year.

As we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. I'd also like to remind you that approximately once every 6 years, we add a week to the December quarter to align our fiscal periods with the December calendar, so this December quarter will span 14 weeks rather than 13, and will end on December 31. We expect revenues to be about $37 billion compared to $26.7 billion in the December quarter last year. We expect gross margin to be about 40%, reflecting approximately $60 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $3.25 billion, including about $350 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $85 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 24.25%. We're targeting EPS of about $9.30.

In closing, we're extremely pleased with the strong conclusion to our record-breaking fiscal 2011. Over the course of the year, we generated revenue of over $108 billion, an increase of $43 billion or 66% over our fiscal 2010 results. We blew past historical records by selling over 72 million iPhones, 32 million iPads, and almost 17 million Macs in fiscal 2011. We expanded our reach by opening 40 new retail stores, adding scores of new carrier and leaseholder relationships, and broadening our online presence through Apple stores and App Stores around the world, and last but not least, we generated almost $26 billion in net income during the year, an increase of 85% year-over-year, which was even faster than our revenue growth. We're thrilled to begin selling iPhone 4S and to bring iOS5 and iCloud to our customers this month, and we remain very enthusiastic about our new product pipeline. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter. We ask that you limit yourself to 1 question and 1 follow-up. Operator? May we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: From Goldman Sachs, we'll go to Bill Shope.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Okay, great, thanks. I have a few iPhone questions if I could. Given that the 4S was launched so close to the holiday selling season, can you give us an idea of your confidence in the production ramp and the distribution ramp, and how you've mitigated the risk of a shortage during peak consumer demand?

TIM COOK: Hi, Bill. It's Tim. We've gotten off to a great start with the 4S. We've sold over 4 million in just 3 days after launch, and so we're thrilled with the start that we have. We're confident that we will have a large supply, but I don't want to predict where supply and demand might balance because the demand is obviously extremely high right now, but I'm confident that we will set an all-time record for iPhone this quarter.

BILL SHOPE: Now, and just a question on the September quarter iPhone dynamics. So it sounds like the primary negative impact on shipments was purely from a sell-through pause? You didn't have any real channel inventory draw down issues affect shipments; is that correct?

TIM COOK: Not entirely. If you look on the sell-through basis, the sequential comparison is down 2.4 million units. That's 19.7 million from the previous quarter, which had an inventory build in it to bring it to a sell-in of over 20 million and to 17.3 million this quarter which had an inventory reduction of a little less than 200,000, which Peter talked about in his opening remarks.

That 2.4 million was much less of a reduction than what we were expecting and was a large factor in our revenue exceeding our guidance by over $3 billion. We expected it to be greater than 2.4 million, because we knew that there was great anticipation of the June or July new iPhone, because that was the pace that we have been on for the last several years, and as we had predicted, that sell-through decline did occur in the quarter, but not nearly to the extent that we thought and therefore, we significantly beat our guidance.

The reduction happened largely in the back half of the quarter as the speculation hit extreme highs. However, we're thrilled to be shipping the new iPhone 4S and iOS5 and iCloud, and we are very confident that we will set an all-time record in the December quarter for iPhone sales. In our wildest dreams, we couldn't have gotten off to a start as great as we have on the 4S.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, great. Thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Morgan Stanley, we'll hear from Katy Huberty.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Peter? This quarter you were able to print north of a 40% gross margin despite the mix shift away from your high-margin product and towards a lower-margin product, so just curious why you don't think you can do better than 40% in December, given how well the iPhone 4S is already doing, and the favorable component cost environment? And then I have a follow-up for Tim.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. I understand your question, Katy. We expect the gross margin to be relatively flat on a sequential basis, and we expect this because, as you pointed out, we do think that a favorable component cost environment will continue, and we certainly expect a very strong mix of iPhones, both of which are positive for gross margins. However, we expect both of these to be basically fully offset by the impact of higher cost structures and reduced price points for the recently introduced iPhones and iPods, as well as the stronger US dollar. It's really strengthened in the last couple of weeks from where we were across the Summer, so that's why.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay, and then Tim, over the course of the last year, you've provided great insight into Apple's traction in China, so I wonder if you could update us on how you're tracking in that region, but also provide some insight into how substantial China could be to Apple over time. For instance is there any reason that China couldn't be as big as the US market once you open more stores and optimize the product set there?

TIM COOK: Yes, thanks for the question. Should -- the China progress has been amazing. If you look at our Greater China revenue, it represented just 2% of Apple in our fiscal year 2009 and in the fiscal year we just ended, it accounted for 12% and if you just look at the quarter that we just ended, it accounted for 16%, so it's our fastest-growing major region by far. It delivered $4.5 billion of our revenue for the current quarter, and that's up almost 4 times, or about 270% year-over-year. That brought the total revenue for the fiscal year to over $13 billion, and to further put that in context, a year ago in fiscal year 2010, we were right -- just right above $3 billion, so it is growing at a feverish pace.

We have placed new retail stores there, as you know. We now have 6 in Greater China. Our online store opened at the end of last year, and so we have still, we haven't hit our 1-year anniversary there yet. We have over 200 mono-branded stores that we call APRs, which are resellers on there, and it's a very premium shopping experience, and we are now up to over 7,000 point-of-sales on the iPhone in Greater China, and so we're continuing to make investments in this.

How far can it go? I certainly, in my lifetime, I've never seen a country with as many people rising into the middle class that aspire to buy products that Apple makes, and so it's -- I think it's an area of enormous opportunity, and it has quickly become number 2 on our list of top revenue countries very, very quickly, and we're obviously placing additional investment, we're building more stores there, as well as doing quite a few other things to continue to deliver our great products to the people of China.

We're also placing additional focus on some other areas that have shown great promise over this fiscal year, such as Brazil. Brazil was up 118% year-over-year, and went over the $900 million mark. Russia is also beginning to look more and more promising, and as I'd mentioned on the last call, the Middle East, we believe has significant opportunity, so there's several of these markets that historically Apple has not been strong in, that the iPhone has really opened up and introduced Apple to a whole set of customers, that then get excited about looking at other products that we have, and I think certainly the iPad will be doing the same, and so I think China, the sky's the limit there, and I wouldn't discount some of these other places that I've mentioned as well.

KATY HUBERTY: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go to Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. 2 questions. First, for Tim. If you could weigh in a little more on Apple's historic strength in terms of the manufacturing and supply chain strategies? I know we talked about this before, Tim, but can you give us an update in terms of your margin flexibility as you start to use more than 1 source for certain parts of your supply chain manufacturing chain? And then I have a question for Peter after that.

TIM COOK: Yes, Mark, I think we have a outstanding team in this area and a track record that's unparalleled in the industry, although we keep trying to improve it all the time, we've also used our balance sheet in a favorable way here to do some strategic deals on different parts that we felt were very, very important to Apple across a series of products. As we get larger, there are some areas where we've elected to diversify some. However, our approach has been, and I think will always be, to do business with as few people as we can, so we can be very deep with them and do great innovative stuff together, and you can't tend to do that when you go out to many, many different people, and I think they give us great quality and also reasonable prices, and so that winds up helping our margin.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: And then the second question is around the iPad. Recently, Amazon with the Kindle Fire is trying to make the market more of a soap box derby in terms of lower price points but maybe limited feature sets. Can you weigh in on what your view is, and is this making it more of a hybrid market where it's not really a tablet but kind of a hybrid and Apple has not really seen any effects from a demand perspective at this point?

TIM COOK: We had an outstanding quarter last quarter with setting a record of doing over 11 million and at the same time we were setting a Mac record, which is I think very phenomenal in and of itself, but we've seen several competitors come to market to try and compete with the iPad over time. Some had different form factors, different price points, and I think it's reasonable to say that none of these have gained any traction thus far, and in fact, as all of those competitors were coming to market, our share actually went up, such that in the June quarter, IDC, according to IDC, we were responsible for 3 out of every 4 tablets sold, and I think when you really assess this thing and look at iOS5, iCloud, the ecosystem with iTunes and the App Store and books and movies and the fact that we have over 140,000 native Apps for iPad, versus a number in the hundreds for the other guys, I feel very, very confident about our ability to compete and extremely confident in our product pipeline.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Piper Jaffray, we'll hear from Gene Munster.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon, everybody, and Peter, did I hear that right that you mentioned the deferral of iPhone for new carriers and new country additions, I wonder if you could elaborate on what that was, and the potential impact on the numbers?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, as I said in my prepared remarks, we opted to defer adding new carriers or countries during the September quarter, knowing that we would launch the iPhone 4S very early in the October month, and we wanted to launch our new carriers with our latest products so we waited, and I think that did have some impact on the September quarter. I think the biggest impact were the rumors that were just very pervasive, particularly in the second half of the quarter, there just seemed to be the rumor of the day, but that's behind us. We have just started selling the iPhone 4S, and it's off to a fantastic start, and we're thrilled to be including Sprint and KDDI in our carrier line-up, and we're heading into this holiday season with the best product lineup Apple has ever shipped and tremendous momentum.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay, thank you and Tim, I realize the Amazon Fire question is out of the way here but do you have any high level thoughts on the size of the tablet market? It's not netbooks, it's computers. How do you think about internally thinking about how big this market could be in the next few years?

TIM COOK: We thought, Gene, from the beginning of this, that it would be a huge market, and it has been even greater than we thought and we've now sold 40 million on a cumulative basis, and it's pretty clear to me that if you forecast out in time that the tablet market, I still believe it will be larger than the PC market. That's not a guidance number. That's just something that I very much believe. There will be many, many more people that can access it, and the ease-of-use is so phenomenal and off the charts, that I think it's a huge opportunity for Apple across time.

GENE MUNSTER: That's helpful, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Barclays Capital, we'll hear from Ben Reitzes.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I was actually wondering if we could talk a little bit more about the iPhone. Do you have any idea of how many units do you feel were pushed out and deferred into the next quarter, and in general, what do you think, how should we be thinking about the 4S launch, given the pent-up demand from the quarter? Anything else with regard to the velocity, and how it worked into your guidance of $37 billion?

TIM COOK: Well, Ben, I think the number, you can't run the experiment twice, and so we can't tell you with precision how many units we would have sold if there had not been rumors, and people weren't expecting a new iPhone, but I certainly believe it was substantial, and that's the reason that we called it out, and I think anybody monitoring the press would probably come to the same conclusion. You could go out and talk to a group of customers and probably get the same kind of answer.

On the 4S, I think it's off the charts. If you do a comparison of the 3 days after launch of last year on iPhone 4, we came in at 1.7. This year we were over 4 in the same time frame and so that's the mother of all uplifts, and so we're thrilled with how we've gotten started and the feedback that we're getting from customers is just fantastic, and so I couldn't be more pleased with where we are.

BEN REITZES: And just my follow-up is with regard to the iPad category, now that it's -- I wouldn't call it maturing but a few more quarters of experience, do you generally in Macs, you're up a little sequentially lately in the fourth quarter. You have an extra week now. Any thoughts on how the iPad may -- seasonality may be working in the iPad over the next quarter or 2 just in terms of more experience or a gut feel for how that product progresses?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, it's Peter. I'll give you some thoughts on the December quarter, but we're not going to provide our thoughts yet for the March quarter. We would expect to establish new Company records for both the iPhone and the iPad in the December quarter. These are fantastic products, and the momentum here is tremendous, and for Macs, we would expect to outgrow the market on a year-over-year basis and report to you our 23rd consecutive quarter of outgrowing the market.

BEN REITZES: Okay, thanks a lot.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross with Cross Research Financial.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. My first question, Tim. Can you talk a little bit more on how you see Siri, and how you see Siri in the future? Is this a feature, or do you see it more as a key way that consumers are going to interact with their devices? Just any color you could give would be great.

TIM COOK: Well, the number of people using it already is amazing and the questions and so forth and the personality that it has is also incredible, and so we see this as a profound innovation, and I think over time, many, many people will use it in a substantial way, and what percentage of their input will be by that, I don't know. And what percentage of their searches, I don't know, but our guts have been since the beginning of this, is that it is substantial and it's an incredible innovation, and that's the feedback that we're getting from customers.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, great, and then can you make a comment just on the supply chain given the HDD issues in Thailand. What are your thoughts, any clarity you've gotten from the people on the ground there? Thank you.

TIM COOK: It's a very good question. Our hearts go out to all the people in Thailand who have experienced these devastating losses of life and property, as a result of the monsoons and the flooding. Like many others, we source many components from Thailand, and have multiple factories that supply these components. There are several factories that are currently not operable, and the recovery timeline for these factories is not known at this point. As you can appreciate, the weather really hasn't allowed an ability to assess those.

From the work that we have done, we would say that our primary exposure is on the Mac, because as you point out, of the number of drives or drive components that are sourced in Thailand, is a significant portion of the total worldwide supply of drives, and so I can't give you a precise accounting. It is something that I'm concerned about. We do expect, I'm virtually certain there will be an overall industry shortage of disk drives, as a result of the disaster. How it affects Apple, I'm not sure, but we placed our assessment, to the degree that we could make 1, in the guidance that Peter has already given you in the $37 billion number.

SHANNON CROSS: Great, thank you very much.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Could we have the next question?

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Yes, thank you. I have 2, please. Tim, I'm wondering if you can comment on your ongoing patent disputes, most notably versus Samsung and other Android OEMs. Specifically I'm wondering if you can characterize what your ultimate objectives are from litigation. Is it to get injunctions on violating products? Is it to capture royalty fees, or what is it?

TIM COOK: Toni, I don't want to comment on any particular litigation. It's our policy not to do that, but basically, as you know, we spend a lot of time and money and resource in coming up with incredible innovations, and we don't like it when someone else takes those, and so that's why we unfortunately, we've been pushed into the court system as a remedy to that, but I don't want to comment about any particular lawsuit.

TONI SACCONAGHI: I'm just -- I meant generally speaking, you said as a remedy. What kinds of remedies do you see coming from the court system?

TIM COOK: That's 1 of the things I particularly don't want to comment on.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about the price reductions on the 3GS offering. You've gone to free on post-paid and dramatically reduced the price $160 to $200 in most countries on the pre-paid offering. How are you thinking about this price reduction in terms of its potential elasticity? Do you see it as targeting a new segment of consumers, and how are you thinking about whether this will largely resonate with prepaid customers or with post-paid customers?

TIM COOK: We did it because we wanted to make the iPhone more accessible to a broader market, and so not only did we take the 3GS to free on a post-paid basis, and that's the US, but it's free in post paid in many, many other markets as well, but we also lowered the price of the iPhone 4 to $99, and so we've done both of those because, as we looked at it, these are still fantastic products, and we think that we can do reasonably well selling those in the post-paid markets. It also has the advantage of having a lower price in the prepaid markets. Obviously not free, and $99, but lower than where those entry points were previously, and so we did it for both markets, Toni, both the post-paid and the pre-paid markets. Both of those are very, very important to us and it has been our thinking for a while to do that.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Citi, we'll hear from Richard Gardner.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Okay, thank you. Tim, as a follow-up to Shannon's question, I was hoping that you might be willing to give us a more general view of how you view component supply demand and pricing going into the fourth quarter, and then also particularly, unibody casings given the issues that you've had with one of your suppliers in that area as well, do you expect that to have any significant impact on MacBook Pro or MacBook Air supply in the fourth quarter?

TIM COOK: On the second question first, we treat every concern that we hear about our suppliers very, very seriously and we're currently investigating and assessing the situation, and we factored our supply outlook as we currently see it into the numbers that Peter has given earlier. In terms of the general market for components, NAND and DRAM, which were -- really declined the last quarter, and LCDs, we see all 3 of these generally in a very positive supply situation, and therefore, we expect the pricing to continue at favorable levels. Most of the other components we expect to fall at or above historical trends, and so generally speaking, it's a very positive market from a supply point of view. Now, that is with the asterisk of the disaster that just happened in Thailand and I'm not sure how that will play out, but I do believe that the risk there is more focused on the Mac portion of our product line.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, and if I could ask a follow-up, I guess for Peter and Tim. I know you don't give operating margin guidance or gross margin guidance but it does seem like we could be moving into a new phase for the Company where potentially several of the fastest growing products in the product line, whether it be iPad or these lower-priced iPhones that could see some good price elasticity at the low end, could be the fastest growing products for the Company next year, and could start to put some pressure on gross margins. I'm just wondering if you A, agree with that assertion and B, if that is the case, is it still reasonable to think that the Company can maintain or expand operating margins next year if gross margins come under pressure due to product mix?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rich, it's Peter. Let me make some comments about the December quarter and then I'll give you more of our philosophy beyond here. We're not providing future quarter or future year guidance. For the December quarter, we anticipate our gross margin being about 40%, and having nice leverage on our OpEx, yielding an operating margin of just over 31%, which would be quite strong.

As we look forward, we are going to just continue to offer the very best products to customers that we can. We are going to be extremely innovative. We're very confident and excited about what's in the product pipeline. You'll see us be aggressive in the future, and where customers want to buy, that's fine with us. We just want them to buy our products and as I look back over the last couple years, I think we've done a very good job gaining market share and growing our top and bottom lines, and running a great business, and we're just going to keep coming to work every day to do that in the future.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go to Kulbinder Garcha with Credit Suisse.

KULBINDER GARCHA, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thank you. I've got one clarification and one question. On the iPad side, could you just speak about where we are in the distribution rollout of that product in particular, where we are on countries and carriers and points of sales, and was there any pause around that in the September quarter, and then a question for Tim. Tim, you mentioned just the growth not only in China, but also the potential that may exist in Brazil, the Middle East and Russia and I guess you could throw India in there as well. What do you practically need to do to actually realize the potential, is it a case of local manufacturing to those countries, is it a case of carrier distribution, and how long might it take to realize that because I understand the focus now is in China but I'm trying to understand what happens at least to realize the potential of the emerging middle class in those countries as well. Many thanks.

TIM COOK: Yes, we are in 90 countries on iPad. We have about 40,000 points of sale around the world. To put that in some context, we have about 50,000 on iPod, and about 120,000 on iPhone, so you can get a feel for the extent of the rollout there. There are still countries left to do but we aren't in the main countries with iPad.

Do I think there's a slowdown of iPad? For the iPhone numbers, it's crystal clear in looking at the numbers that there was a slowdown. That is not the case on iPad and so, where I believe we are from a supply-demand point of view on iPad is that we somewhere during the quarter entered a supply-demand balance and stayed there for the balance of a quarter. If you recall on the last call, I said that we were coming in balance in a few countries and then some time thereafter, I think that we went into supply and demand balance around the world, and you can look at the share numbers that third parties have reported, and we're doing extremely well there. We feel -- we couldn't feel better honestly.

And the extent of the usage, the comScore group said that 97% of the web usage of tablets in the US is from the iPad, so it's just mind boggling, so we feel very, very good about that. In terms of the other countries outside of China, we have already started placing efforts in the places that I mentioned. It's not something that we are going to start next week or so. It's something we've already done, or I wouldn't have brought it up frankly. Obviously, we wouldn't have done over $900 million in Brazil with no effort.

There are some countries in the world that have protectionalist-type of structures where the prices of the goods are extremely high, if there's not local content involved, and so we will assess each of those and decide what's in our best interest, but today I don't have anything to report there. The basic approach in all of the countries are the same as the game plan that we used in China, and it's just a matter of the course, the rate and pace of a rollout, and whether to involve every one of the things that we did in China.

In China, we picked everything that we knew to do. We are building retail, we went in with an online store, we're building an APR channel, we're building a third-party channel, we're doing significant advertising, we're really doing everything basically that we're doing in the United States we're doing in China. We would not be doing that in each of the other countries I named, but we would be doing portions of that, and have already started to achieve the numbers that we did last year.

KULBINDER GARCHA: Okay, thank you very much.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Kulbinder, the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Bank of America-Merrill Lynch we'll go to Scott Craig.

SCOTT CRAIG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good afternoon. Tim, I was wondering the First Call as CEO, any thoughts on any different strategy as far as cash allocation goes and by that I mean dividend and a possible share buyback and maybe talk about the supplier investments also, and then the second question is you mentioned the tablet market potentially being even bigger than the PC market at some point. Can you discuss the cannibalization levels that you think you're seeing right now versus the PC market? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Yes, let me start with the second question first. I do believe that we're seeing cannibalization. I think that it's showing up in 2 ways. I think that some people are electing to buy an iPad rather than a Mac, however I believe that a materially larger number of people are electing to buy an iPad instead of a Windows-based PC, and so I think we're overwhelmingly coming out very, very well in that cannibalization question and I would point out that despite that, the Mac had its best quarter by far ever last quarter, and so even with having the best quarter on iPad, with some cannibalization of the Mac, the Mac has its best quarter ever, which is almost unbelievable, and so with cannibalization like this, I hope it continues.

On your cash question, to date as you know, we've wanted to maintain flexibility. I think everyone knows, that knows us knows that the cash isn't burning a hole in our pocket and we aren't the type people to do silly things with it. We invest it conservatively. If you look at Gary and his team's track record, they've done a phenomenal job in a extremely difficult market for the last few years. We've also taken money, and done things with it that are in Apple's best interest. For example, we've acquired several companies. We've acquired some IP, as you know. We've invested in the supply chain, and we used money to build out our stores and provide for a lot of new product tooling, and the like.

And so I believe what we're doing with cash, the cash that we do spend we're doing an extremely good job of it and we're very frugal about using it and using it in the right places. That said, I'm not religious about holding cash or not holding it. I'm religious about a lot of things, but not that one, and so we will continually ask ourselves what's in Apple's best interest, and always do what we leave is in Apple's best interest and so it's a topic for the Board on an ongoing basis, and we'll continue to discuss it.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Scott, I'd like to add to Tim's answer just to remind everybody that of the little over $81 billion of cash that we ended the September quarter with, a bit more than $54 billion or two-thirds of it was offshore.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Scott. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From RBC Capital Markets we'll hear from Mike Abramsky.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thanks very much. Tim, just following up on your last question, maybe I'll just ask this just absolutely directly. Is buying back shares with your cash, which seems to be sort of the thing that everybody wants you to do, at least certain investors want you to do it, is that perhaps kind of a philosophical white flag that you aren't able to create value through product innovation?

TIM COOK: Mike, I think anyone looking at us and the track record that we've got would not come to any conclusion that we're waving a white flag on innovation. We've had a series of unbelievable products, that we believe are the best products in the world and our customers tell us that, which is more importantly than us saying it, and we've got a pipeline that's unbelievable, and so--.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Sorry, Tim, I didn't mean to convey you were doing that. I meant to say would that be holding you back philosophically from buying back shares?

TIM COOK: No, I view those to be totally separate and distinct things, so no, I don't believe, it certainly doesn't send that signal from my point of view. The cash is always a topic, and we will always conclude to do what we think is in Apple's best interest, and I think we've done that so far, and if you look at where we've spent it, I think you would agree.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay, and then the original goals for the iPhone at the time it was obviously classed as audacious was 1% of the market in the first fiscal year after launch and you achieved 5 times that, Tim, and in the recent presentation, when you highlighted that there's 95% of the market to go, I'm wondering if, in your minds you've established a similarly audacious goal for the next couple years for market penetration?

TIM COOK: Well, not one that I publish but we want the iPhone to be in as many customers' hands as possible because we think that it's the greatest phone by far and that's why we live to do that, and so yes, we aspire to much larger volumes than where we are, and we think the smartphone market will eventually absorb the handset market, as I made a point in the presentation, the handset market is this huge market, it's 1.5 billion handsets, and the smartphone market, depending upon which service you believe, is a bit over 400 million or so, and so there's a huge growth in the smartphone market and then we think that we can also grow within the sector at all. But the big win is to eat into the 1.5 billion and not just for us, but I think for others as well, and we are very focused on doing that. You can tell that with the moves that we've made recently.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay, thanks.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mike. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go to Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, thanks. I have 2. Peter, first for you. Is the extra week for the quarter truly linear on both the revenues and the expenses, and included, the reason I'm asking is just trying to set up if you will for the March quarter, the potential impact of the extra week on the March quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Keith. The 14th week will conclude on New Years Eve Day which has traditionally been a good sell-through week for us, but not physically as strong as the weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas Day. We'll provide further details on our January call about what we actually saw, but that's some indication, in terms of what we would see for sell-through. For our expenses, we certainly will have variable expenses and payroll expenses for that 14th week, but some of our fixed costs, such as leases and rents and such are fixed, so they will be of benefit there as well.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, and my follow-up, excuse me, is on Japan. In terms of the year-over-year and sequential changes, there was a bigger disparity on units versus revenues, CPU units versus total revenues in Japan. I was just wondering if you could speak to that, if you could.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry?

KEITH BACHMAN: In terms of the revenue performance in Japan, it looked to be a bigger disparity between the units and the revenues than was true in the other regions. Just wondering why the bigger disparity in Japan, was it FX or was it other reasons?

TIM COOK: A huge percentage of Japan's total revenue in the year-ago quarter was from the iPhone 4 launch. It was the iPhone 4's first quarter as you know, and so when you do a year-over-year compare, that adversely affects the revenue compare. The Mac, however, had an incredible quarter, growing at 48% in a market that is barely growing at all, so we gained significant share on the Mac side of the business, the iPhone was a negative year-over-year compare, but we have gotten off to a unbelievable start in Japan. It was one of the first 7 countries, and it's very clear that Japan is yet another example of the delay that we were speaking about earlier.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, so the sequential was then, there was perhaps a larger delay in Japan for the iPhone 4S than other regions, is that a way to think about it?

TIM COOK: And think about it, that iPhone is a bigger portion of the revenue.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, great. Fair enough, thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks very much. Tim, I wanted to ask about the medium to longer term iPad opportunity as you see it from an ASP standpoint or segmentation standpoint, and by that I mean, do you see more opportunity to move that product down market to drive elasticity, or up market to take on more of the, or a greater percentage of the PC market?

TIM COOK: I don't want to get into what we might do which that answer might do, but let me just go back to, we see the tablet market as a huge market, and we could not be happier with our position in it, and we've got some fantastic things in the pipeline and after selling 40 million in the first 18 months, which is more than our wildest dreams were, and selling 3 out of every 4, I think we've got a fairly good handle on what to do next.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Okay, perhaps I can ask on initial feedback or expectations around the lower price point than the iPhone business, into emerging markets. Can you comment at all or give some color on carrier receptivity of that pricing change and any acceleration in carrier engagements on the back of that?

TIM COOK: Maybe I can answer that in 2 ways. If you look at the channel inventory on iPhone that was there at the end of Q4 and so this is at the September 24th cutoff point for our quarter, that was the 5.75 [million] that Peter mentioned in his opening comments, over half of that has already sold through, and so one portion of the things driving that is the elasticity question that you're getting at there. We also did in a very few countries last quarter, we dropped the 3GS price a bit early, particularly in some of the pre-pay markets to see what would occur in those markets and we were extremely pleased with the results, and it gave us even more conviction to follow through with the plan change that we made earlier in October.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Chris. A replay of today's call will be available for 2 weeks with a podcast on the iTunes store and Webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone and the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 2922403. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5.00 PM Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896 and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions, Joan is 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111101e7ai004ph
  


 HD
 Q3  2011 Apple Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,977 words
   PD
19 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone, and welcome to this Apple, Inc. third-quarter fiscal year 2011 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR IR, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO Peter Oppenheimer, and he will be joined by Apple's COO Tim Cook, and Treasurer Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you will hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation, those regarding revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast.

For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2010, the Form 10-Q for the first two quarters of fiscal 2011, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release.

Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, SVP, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are thrilled to report the highest quarterly revenue and earnings in Apple's history. We also set a new all-time quarterly record for iPhone and iPad sales and a new June quarter record for Mac sales. And we are extremely pleased with the momentum of our business.

Revenue for the quarter was $28.6 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 82%. This record quarterly revenue tops the previous record established in the most recent December quarter by $1.8 billion, and was almost $13 billion over the year-ago quarter's results.

The tremendous year-over-year increase was fueled primarily by dramatic growth in iPhone and iPad sales, in addition to strong growth in Mac sales.

Operating margin was a record high of $9.4 billion, representing 32.8% of revenue. Net income was $7.3 billion, topping the previous quarterly record set in the December quarter by $1.3 billion.

Net income grew even faster than revenue, increasing 125% year-over-year, and translated to earnings per share of $7.79.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I would like to begin with our Mac products and services. We established a new June quarter record with sales of 3.95 million Macs, representing a 14% increase over the year-ago quarter's results. This growth is more than 4 times IDC's most recently published forecast of 3% growth for the PC market overall.

Mac sales were particularly strong in our Asia-Pacific segment, where we experienced a 57% year-over-year increase in total Macs sold.

We generated healthy Mac growth in both desktop and portable categories. In May we updated the iMac with a next-generation quad-core processors, powerful new graphics, high-speed Thunderbolt I/O technology and a new FactTime HD camera.

The growth in Mac Portable sales was driven by strong sales at MacBook Pro, as well as MacBook Air. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

We are very excited to be launching Mac OS X Lion tomorrow. Lion includes more than 250 new features, such as multi-touch gestures, systemwide support for fullscreen apps, Mission Control, which is an innovative view of everything running on your Mac and much more.

Moving to our music products, we sold 7.5 million iPods compared to 9.4 million in the year-ago quarter. Total iPod sales were ahead of our expectations, and iPod Touch continues to account for over half of all iPods sold.

IPod's share of the US market for MP3 players remains at over 70% based on the latest monthly data published by NPD. And iPod continued to be the top-selling MP3 player in most countries we track based on the latest data published by GfK.

We ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPod channel inventory. The iTunes Store generated strong results, with revenue of almost $1.4 billion. ITunes' revenue was up 36% year-over-year thanks primarily to continued strong sales in music, video and apps.

With more than 225 million accounts, iTunes is the number one music retailer in the world, and customers have downloaded more than 15 billion songs to date.

I would now like to turn to the iPhone. We were thrilled to sell a record 20.3 million iPhones compared to 8.4 million in the previous June quarter. This represents 142% year-over-year growth, which is more than double IDC's latest published estimate of 67% growth for the global smartphone market overall in the June quarter.

Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessory sales was $13.3 billion during the quarter, compared to $5.3 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 150%.

We continue to experience very strong year-over-year iPhone sales growth in all of our operating segments. IPhone sales momentum in the Asia-Pacific region was particularly robust, with sales almost quadrupling year-over-year.

We continued to increase our overall iPhone manufacturing capacity in the quarter. We were pleased to launch a number of new carrier relationships, and by the end of the quarter iPhone was available through 228 carriers in 105 countries compared to 186 carriers in 90 countries as of the end of the March quarter.

We ended the quarter with about 5.9 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 700,000 to support strong iPhone demand, carrier additions and expanded distribution. We remain within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPhone channel inventory.

iPhone continues to be adopted as a standard across the enterprise, with 91% of the Fortune 500 deployed or testing the device, up from 88% last quarter. We are also seeing great growth in scale worldwide. Today 57% of Global 500 companies are testing or deploying iPhone, fueled by strong employee demand and opportunities for custom app development.

Some examples of Global 500 companies supporting iPhone on their corporate networks include [XA], Credit Agricole, Nestle, Dow Chemical, GlaxoSmithKline, Supervalu and Comcast.

Turning to iPad, we continue to be thrilled with its incredible momentum. We sold a record 9.2 million iPads during the June quarter compared to 3.3 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 183%. We were able to increase production sequentially by over 4.5 million and we sold every iPad we could make.

We launched iPad 2 in an additional 36 countries, and combining the original iPad and iPad 2 we ended the quarter with distribution in a total of 64 countries. Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad accessories during the quarter was over $6 billion compared to $2.2 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 179%.

We ended the quarter with about 1.05 million iPads in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 200,000, which was well below our target range of 4 to 6 weeks.

Today 86% of the Fortune 500 are deploying or testing iPad within their enterprises, up from 75% last quarter. We are also seeing strong adoption internationally with 47% of Global 500 companies testing or deploying iPad.

In the 15 months since iPad has shipped, we have seen iPad used in the enterprise in ways we could have never imagined. Companies like Boston Scientific, Xerox and Salesforce.com are deploying thousands of iPad and revolutionizing how their sales teams engage with customers.

IPad is being used inside the country's top hospitals, like HCA and Cedars-Sinai and in retail at Nordstrom and at Estee Lauder's Clinique counters. General Electric, SAP and Standard Charter have developed internal apps for training, currency tracking and business process management to help make employees even more productive.

Alaska Airlines and American Airlines are using the iPad in cockpits to replace paper-based navigational and reference information pilots carry with them on every flight. We continue to be delighted by the diverse and sometimes unexpected use cases we see around iPads.

Combining iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch we reached over 222 million cumulative iOS device sales through the end of the June quarter. Last month we provided a preview of iOS 5 which includes over 200 new features, such as Notification Center for viewing and managing notifications without interruption; iMessage for sending text messages, photos and videos between iOS devices; and Newsstand, a new way to purchase and organize newspaper and magazine subscriptions.

With the new PC free feature, iOS 5 users will be able to activate and set up iOS devices right out of the box with no computer required. We are looking forward to launching iOS 5 this fall.

In June we also provided a preview of iCloud, our set of three new services that work seamlessly with applications on a customer's iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch, Mac or PC to automatically and wirelessly store content in the cloud, as well as push it to all the user's devices. We think customers will love using iCloud and we look forward to its release in the fall.

The App Store continues to be incredibly successful with over 425,000 apps available in over 15 billion downloads to date. As we mentioned last month, we are extremely pleased to have reached over 2.5 billion in cumulative payments to iOS developers, far ahead of any of our competitors.

I would now like to turn to the Apple Retail Stores, which generated record June quarter results. Revenue grew to $3.5 billion from $2.6 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 36%. This growth was driven primarily by higher volumes of iPads, iPhones and Macs.

The store sold 768,000 Macs, compared to 677,000 Macs in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 13%. About half the Macs sold in our stores during the June quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before.

We opened four new stores in the quarter, including two in France, one in the UK and one in Germany, ending with a total of 327. With an average of 325 stores open, average revenue per store was $10.8 million compared to $9 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 20%. Retail segment margin was $828 million compared to $593 million in the year-ago quarter.

Store traffic continues to be very strong. We hosted 73.7 million visitors in the June quarter compared to 60.5 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 22%.

Our recently launched Personal Setup program is off to a great start. Customers love this new feature of the retail store experience, as they are up and running with their new products before they leave. During the June quarter we set-up over 2 million Macs, iPhones, iPads and iPods collectively.

We plan to open 30 new stores in the September quarter, including our first store in Hong Kong. That will bring us to a total of 40 store openings in fiscal 2011, including 28 new stores outside the United States.

Total Company gross margin was 41.7%, which was 370 basis points higher than our guidance. This difference was the result of three approximately equal factors -- a stronger mix of iPhones; lower commodity and other costs, which included some one-time items; and leverage on the higher revenue.

Operating expenses were $2.54 billion, and included $232 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $172 million, and the tax rate for the quarter was 23.5%.

Turning to cash, our cash, both short-term and long-term marketable securities, totaled $76.2 billion at the end of the June quarter compared to $65.8 billion at the end of the March quarter, a sequential increase of $10.4 billion. Cash flow from operations was $11.1 billion, an increase of 131% year-over-year.

I would now like to talk about the accounting implications of some of the new aspects of our products and services. First, when we deliver Mac OS X Lion to customers, we are now including the right to receive future unspecified minor software upgrades and features when and if they become available for both the Mac operating system and our suite of Mac OS iLife applications.

We will continue to charge for standalone sales of our periodic major OS upgrade, such as Lion, as well as major upgrades of iLife. Revenue from these standalone sales will now be fully deferred at the time of sale and recognized over a period of three years.

In addition to this future software upgrade right, Mac customers will have access to iCloud services when they become available in the fall. We estimate that the combined value of the software upgrade right and iCloud services for Mac customers is $22. Therefore, as of June 6, we began deferring $22 of the revenue associated with each new Mac sold, and we will recognize these deferred amounts as revenue over a period of four years.

Purchasers of iOS devices will also have access to iCloud, so beginning on June 6 we began deferring a portion of the revenue from each iOS devices sold to represent the estimated value of the right to receive iCloud services when they become available. That deferred amount is in addition to the amount that we were already deferring for each iOS devices sold to represent the right to receive future iOS software upgrades.

As a result, beginning on June 6, we are deferring a total of $16 of revenue for each iPhone and iPad sold, and a total of $11 for each iPod Touch sold, and recognizing those amounts over a period of two years.

As we move ahead into September quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking statements that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call.

We expect revenue to be about $25 billion compared to $20.3 billion in the September quarter last year. We expect gross margin to be about 38%, reflecting approximately $55 million related to stock-based compensation expense.

We expect OpEx to be about $2.725 billion, including about $245 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OI&E to be about $50 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 24%. We are targeting EPS of about $5.50.

In closing, we are extremely pleased with our record revenue and earnings and the tremendous customer response to our products. Through the first three quarters of fiscal 2011 we have generated $35 billion in year-over-year revenue growth, translating to a 78% increase. At the same time, we have generated over $9.5 billion in year-over-year earnings growth, representing a 99% increase.

We remain very excited about our new product pipeline, and we look forward to releasing Mac OS X Lion tomorrow, and bringing the wonderful new features of iOS 5 and iCloud to customers this fall.

With that, I would like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter, and we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: The 12% revenue downtick, Peter, in September is much more conservative than your typical September guidance, and what you end up reporting in September, which is usually a 20% plus increase over the last four years.

Can you help us understand why you expect this next quarter to trend softer than seasonal? And maybe how you handicap the impact from some of the new software, services and products that you expect to launch in the quarter? Thanks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Let me start with the units, and I will give you some thoughts on revenue. For the education buying season September has historically been more weighted to higher education, and we would expect this to be the same this year.

We have the best lineup of Macs ever, and would expect to see a year-over-year increase in sales. We also expect a year-over-year increase in iPhone sales. And for iPad we are continuing to expand our quarterly production capacity and points-of-sale and would expect a significant year-over-year increase in sales. For iPod we would expect to see a sequential year-over-year decline.

As we announced at WWDC, we have a lot going on in the fall with the introduction of iOS 5 and iCloud. We also have a future product transition that we are not good to talk about today, and these things will impact our September quarter. We remain very confident in our business, our new product pipeline and our momentum.

KATY HUBERTY: Peter, as it relates to future product transitions, can you just remind us how you approach working those into your guidance. Do you tend to be conservative and wait to see what happens with those products?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, as I said a moment ago, we are not going to talk about this in any detail today. We factored our thinking into our guidance. We are incredibly confident about our business, our new product pipeline and what we are doing.

KATY HUBERTY: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Tim, could you talk a bit about iPad 2 sales and trends? It is still relatively early, I suppose, but I am curious as to what you're seeing in terms of any potential cannibalization or shift of people away from portables, just any thoughts you have on the iPad 2?

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Sure, Shannon. In terms of cannibalization, we do believe that some customers chose to purchase an iPad instead of a new Mac during the quarter. But we also believe that even more customers chose to purchase an iPad over a Windows PC. As I have said before, there is a lot more of the Windows PC business to cannibalize then the Mac.

Also, we believe that the Mac has many other attributes that would make it continue to do well in the market. We are very happy that we grew 14% versus the market's growth of 2.6%, which is about 5 times, as Peter said earlier. So that is what we see with iPad.

As Peter said earlier, we were still selling every unit we could make during the quarter, and that was the situation as we ended the quarter. As we have stepped into July, over the initial weeks to give you a more current update, we have been able to increase the supply further. And some SKUs in some countries are at a supply/demand balance, but we are still working very hard on the balance of the world.

The sales of iPad 2 have absolutely been a frenzy for people to get one, and we are -- feel very good about the progress that we've made about ramping up and the reception that it has received in the marketplace.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. And then if you could talk just a little bit about China. Clearly your growth in Asia-Pac was up almost 250% year-over-year. Just any update on China. Thank you.

TIM COOK: That is a good question. China was very key to our results. As a reminder, for Greater -- we define Greater China as Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Year-over-year it was up over 6 times. And the revenue was approximately $3.8 billion during the quarter, and that makes the year-to-date numbers through the three quarters that we have had thus far around $8.8 billion.

So this has been a substantial opportunity for Apple. And I firmly believe that we are just scratching the surface right now. I think there is an incredible opportunity for Apple there.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Benjamin Reitzes, Barclays Capital.

BENJAMIN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I wanted to talk a little bit more about the outlook for gross margins. You said 38% from the 41.7%. Can you talk about what components and/or mix dynamics will impact that, Peter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, we expect the gross margin, Ben, as you said, to be about 30% and down about 370 basis points sequentially. We expect about two-thirds of this decline to be driven by different product mix. And we expect the remainder to be due to the loss of leverage on the lower sequential revenue, the cost of a future product transition, a full quarter of the back-to-school promotion.

BENJAMIN REITZES: Sorry, I guess the components aspect of that?

TIM COOK: It is Tim. Both NAND and DRAM and also LCDs, batteries, optical drives and most of the components are generally in a very positive supply situation currently, and pricing is expected to fall at or above the historical trend.

Hard drive supply is currently constrained, and we project that price declines in this area will be less than the historical rates.

We do expect, therefore, components to be favorable on a sequential comparison. However, this is largely being offset by one-time benefits that we received that are embedded in the 41.7% gross margin that Peter talked about earlier in the June quarter, and therefore, not a part of the bridge that Peter just talked about.

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hopefully I didn't miss this, but can you give us a little more color on that one-time benefit in gross margins, how significant was it, and any color on what drove that?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Bill, it is Peter. We saw some benefits in our warranty and our phone support area and some settlements that we had. They weren't huge in the June quarter, but we did see some benefits there. As Tim said, we would see that generally offsetting -- the reversal of that generally offsetting the component benefits that he just talked about in the September quarter.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, great. Then a quick follow-up. There has been a lot of news around patent disputes as of late. Some seem to have gone in Apple's favor, while others haven't. Can you help us understand, Tim, how to put these events in context, how we should think about your IP strategy overall, and perhaps how all this is potentially impacting the competitive landscape in smartphones and tablets?

TIM COOK: We have a very simple view here, and that view is we love competition. We think it is great for us and for everyone. But we want people to invent their own stuff. We're going to make sure that we defend our portfolio appropriately.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Richard Gardner, Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I am surprised nobody has asked it, but I was just hoping that you could provide a little more color on what drove the iPhone strength in the quarter. Was it new carriers or existing new countries or existing -- I know you specifically referred to China as being a driver, but just a little more color on what you saw with iPhone in the quarter, please?

TIM COOK: It is Tim. It is a great question. We did add 42 new carriers and 15 new countries during the quarter. So we continued our expansion efforts to get up beyond the [two a quarter] carrier number and above 100 countries.

However, those occurred throughout the quarter. And the real sequential improvement, frankly, was due to emerging and developed markets. It is China was a big part of it. Latin America, driven by Brazil and Mexico, was a big part of it. And the Middle East was a big part of it.

So -- which I think is great for Apple, because these are markets that Apple historically has not been as strong in. And we are really beginning to see the fruits of our labor in these markets.

RICHARD GARDNER: Thanks. Then, Tim, would you be willing to give us as a follow-up any sort of milestones that you're hoping to hit for the next quarter or two in terms of new carriers and countries for iPhone?

TIM COOK: No, but I think you can see that it is something that is of great focus to us. We want to do business with great partners, and there are still great partners out there to do business with, and so we are obviously off working new relationships.

RICHARD GARDNER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: The iPhone clearly is gaining share, but comments from Google last week suggested Android activations are up 56% quarter-over-quarter. And by our math it looks like iOS activations were up around 20%. Tim, you mentioned that China is on fire right now, up 600%. Obviously, you're doing relatively well in the emerging markets, but any thoughts in terms of -- how do you think, I guess, about that Android activation relative to your business?

TIM COOK: I think the Android activation number is a difficult one to get our hands around, because unlike our numbers, which you can go to our datasheet and you can add the iPhones and the iPads and make a reasonable approximation of the iPod Touch, which we have said is over half of our iPod sales, you can quickly see that in the June quarter that we sold over 33 million iOS devices. And across time, as Peter mentioned in his opening comments, we are now over 222 million cumulative iOS devices. So we think this is incredible.

So our numbers are very straightforward. They are transparent and they are reported quarterly. In terms of iPhone, iPhone is up 142% year-over-year. This is more than 2 times the rate of growth of the smartphone market. We think that is incredible.

Also, as Peter said earlier, we sold every iPad 2 in the quarter that we could make. So there certainly was not a shortage of demand.

We are also gaining traction in enterprise. From the numbers that Peter spoke of, obviously now our attention is not turning to getting corporations to test and pilot, but it is more we are really converting to more of a penetration focus.

Our App Store is the largest by far. And if you look at iPad-specific apps we are over 100,000. And I think you would be hard-pressed to find more than a few hundred on the other platforms.

It also doesn't appear that the other tablets are getting any traction to speak of. And we have paid over $2.5 billion to developers, and so there is a great business proposition for developers. And you can tell that customers love it, because we had well over 15 billion apps that have been downloaded.

So we're very, very confident about the product. We are confident with the App Store. We are confident with our proposition for developers. The customers set in every survey I have seen ranked the iPhone number one, and so we're very confident in the customer reception. We are also very confident in our roadmap, and so we feel very, very good.

You may have seen the data that just came out, I believe was yesterday from ChangeWave, that reaffirmed once again that iPhone is the clear leader in customer satisfaction. And also was the number one preference for those people planning to buy a smartphone in the next 90 days. So it seems like there is a lot of great things, and we feel absolutely fantastic about it.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay, and just a follow-up question. Any update on Apple TV, and maybe some thoughts on your strategy in the Connected TV market?

TIM COOK: Apple TV continues to do well, but I don't want to mislead. We still call it a hobby here, and we do that because we don't want anyone to conclude that it is another leg of the stool, because it is not in the size market that iPhone is in or that the iPad is in or that the Mac is in or that the iPod is in.

So we have loved the product. It is clear that customers love the product. We really got it right when we went to the new Apple TV just last fall. But right now it is still a hobby status that we are continuing to invest in it because we think there is something there.

GENE MUNSTER: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I just want to touch base here, Tim, on just the scintillating sales velocity. Is Apple at a point now where you could kind of diversify your contract manufacturing base, as well even your non-Apple retail channel? And what are the opportunities and risks there?

TIM COOK: In terms of the non-Apple retail channel, if you take the iPhone as an example, which as you know makes up a large percentage of our business, we have about 115,000 points-of-sale. So I feel that we are incredibly diversified. We are selling through carriers, through retail. We are selling through our own stores, through our online store. We are selling through companies that have direct salesforces. We are selling to enterprise, including an overlaid salesforce of our own.

So I think the channel is extremely well diversified. We still -- there are still countries where we are still building the channel. So I don't want to give you a view that I think the journey is completed. But in the mature markets I feel that the channels are in good shape. And in the markets where we are putting more and more energy, obviously, there is still channel development to do there, but I think it is well understood and under control. So I don't really -- that is not something that I worry about at all, actually.

In terms of suppliers, I don't want to get into this in any detail, because I think this is one of those things for us that is a part of the magic and a part of the things that we feel that we have some secret sauce and I prefer not to share it.

But your general point about are we too centralized in one place, are we too dependent on a place, you can bet that that the people here, they are involved with supply chain. We have got some outstanding ones. I always ask that question, and I think we always at the end of the day make the right decision for Apple.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Understood. I appreciate that. Maybe as a follow-up, either for you, Tim, or Peter. You have talked in the past about the iPhone and the iPad 2, just because of the bleeding-edge technology, but sometimes the manufacturing yields are a little lighter than what we all think. Where are you guys now in terms of manufacturing yields? Have you walked further up the curve in terms of better utilization?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't want to give you specific yield numbers, but as I said earlier, the supply of iPad improved dramatically in the quarter. That allowed us to do the over 9.2 million. That is up from the 4.7 million from the prior quarter, so we added almost 100%.

I also said that we had further improved the supply in the initial weeks of July. And that has allowed us to get into a supply/demand balance on some SKUs in some countries. So I feel very, very good about our progress in that area.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Abramsky, RBC Capital Markets.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Tim, the trajectory of iPhone growth has been nothing less than astounding, because now you are 142%. You were 113% last quarter, 86%. So I am just trying to understand what your thinking is on the keys to sustain that growth.

Particularly, do you see the current pricing, for example, and tariffs perhaps approaching a level maybe in North America some saturation. Do you need to address that? Different form factors to expand the distribution or just stay on the same business model, especially in these lower-cost Android competitors potentially coming from Asia? Can you talk to that?

TIM COOK: Well, I think, on the tariff side Apple doesn't set the tariffs. They are just set by the carriers. And so I think that is a better question for them. But at a very macrolevel I think what you would find if you went out and talked to several around the world is that virtually every one of them are desirous of having more and more customers have a smartphone and begin to use data on their networks, because this is a way for them to expand their ARPUs.

I firmly believe there is no better device than the iPhone for someone to move from any phone up to a smartphone. The ease-of-use is just unparalleled and the ecosystem is unparalleled. So I think there is a good alignment in that area.

I mentioned a few moments ago that the key driver and sequential results on the iPhone -- or sequential improvement in units were emerging and developing markets. So you can see that we are putting more and more energy in these markets that have been a bit more difficult to do well in versus some of the markets that are in the established countries and subsidized countries, or they are primarily subsidized. I think we have a very good focus here, and I think we can compete with anyone.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: So those markets would have prepay, for example, lower purchasing power, indirect distribution. Are those things you're going to need to address through pricing and other means?

TIM COOK: Those markets that I mentioned that we were doing well in, there are some percentage of postpaid in some of those markets, but if you looked at the market in the aggregate most of those markets are predominantly prepay.

In some cases we have convinced someone to start a postpaid plan, because in the long term I think that is better for the customer, the carrier and us.

But in general, we are also playing in the prepaid market. We are not avoiding that market. We don't want to avoid that market. We know that we need to play there in order to have the kind of volumes that we would like to have.

And (multiple speakers) your question on expanding channels and developing channels, we are obviously -- that is on our list. And we are -- with 115,000 down now, we have some experience there. We know we've got a lot more to do, but we've got some experience under our belt now to play with.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Thanks, Tim.

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman, Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: Tim, this is for you. Mac growth was about 5% sequential. In the past two years the sequential growth has looked more like 17% to 18%. And notebook sequential growth was even below that. So I wanted to go back to what do you think in this quarter was cannibalization versus perhaps some holdbacks in anticipation of Lion, and how does that show up do you think in terms of catch-up in the September quarter?

TIM COOK: I really look more at year-over-year than I do sequential on the Mac. But I'm going to get at the answer to your question anyway. I think -- first of all, I am proud of the numbers that we achieved. To grow at 14% when the market is growing at 2.6%, doing 5 times the rate of growth is certainly something to be proud of. However, in terms of why isn't the number higher than 14%, obviously, we always focus on that. No matter if the number were 42%, we would focus on that.

I think there are three things that are the primary factors. And I don't want to try to quantify these for you, but I do want to list them so that you know how we look at it.

The first is -- as I said before, I think there were some cannibalization of new Macs by iPad. We shipped a record 9.2 million iPads during the quarter, which is over 2 times the number of Macs that we shipped. It is clear that some customers chose to purchase an iPad instead of a new Mac. But the thing that really excites us is that more customers chose to buy an iPad than a Windows PC.

The second one is, I think some customers have delayed purchase until Lion becomes available. As Peter commented on earlier, we are launching Lion tomorrow. We are looking forward to getting Lion out. It is a fantastic product. The guys have worked very, very hard on it. It is really revolutionary change.

The third thing that I wouldn't discount is in the year-ago quarter we launched new MacBook Pro. In this particular quarter we launched new iMac. Both products were well received. However, the MacBook Pro makes up over -- makes up the majority of the units that we sell in the Mac area.

So, obviously, if you change the MacBook Pro and it is well received, it is going to make the comp more difficult to compare to. So those are the three things that I think are primarily why the number isn't more than it is. But I don't want to lose sight that it already is 5 times the industry, and this is the 21st consecutive quarter that we beat the market.

KEITH BACHMAN: My follow-up then is if I look at the sequential growth pattern -- sorry, in the September quarter, I would assume given the demand that you said you're catching up here in the month of July that iPads would increase sequentially, including probably some potential channel fill. But I just wanted to see if you could give us some feedback on what the growth trajectory looks like after this great quarter here in iPads?

TIM COOK: Well, we don't predict unit sales. We aggregate things into a guidance, and Peter went through that earlier. So I don't want to make a comment about iPad, other than I think Peter said earlier, which I am sure you would have reached the conclusion of anyway, is that we think iPad will grow significantly year-over-year. We will leave the rest of it to you to conclude.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, thanks very much.

TIM COOK: Then we would be very happy to report in October how we view that.

KEITH BACHMAN: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Craig, Bank of America.

SCOTT CRAIG, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Tim, can you maybe provide a little bit more color around what exactly the issues are for the iPad ramping up into the sort of levels that you want to get to? Can you hazard a guess as to when you think you will be at sort of equilibrium on a global basis from a production and supply standpoint? Thanks.

TIM COOK: You know, this is a good sort of problem per se is that the demand is fantastic. So there is not something that I would point to on the supply side saying this has created a huge issue. It is the good problem.

As I said before, and I generally don't do that, but in this case I am, is to talk about July and the first weeks of July. We are now three -- a little over three weeks into the quarter, supply has further improved since we ended our June quarter. And that further improvement has led some SKUs in some countries to become in supply/demand balance.

Now I'm not going to project what will happen to the other countries, but, obviously, we are working very, very hard to get as many units to customers as we can. We put -- we placed our latest thinking in the guidance, obviously.

SCOTT CRAIG: Maybe just a quick follow-up, Tim. Is there anything you guys are doing differently as far as investing in the enterprise salesforce, so to speak, or doing anything differently as far as going to market on the enterprise side that you can point us to, and then, I guess, we will see the fruits of that labor as we sort of go forward here?

TIM COOK: We have a dual-pronged strategy with enterprise on both the iPad and the iPhone. As we work with the carrier salesforces, and they have very large ones because they are selling their services into enterprise, and many of these enterprises want that -- one of our devices connected to it.

So we train and provide quite a bit of help to the carrier forces. Plus we do some sales directly ourselves, or act as an overlay salesforce to a channel that sells to enterprise.

I would characterize this as we are still building it out, and we do a bit better each quarter. We are very, very happy with the numbers that Peter talked about earlier about the level of interest and taking people to the pilot and initial deployment stages. And now our attention is moving to penetration within those accounts versus sort of getting on the standards list.

I think you would really look at it fairly to be this far into the enterprise with a product that has only been shipping for 15 months, in the case of iPad, is absolutely incredible. Because the enterprise is typically much more conservative and takes a long time to evaluate products. In this case people are moving at a speed I haven't seen.

Also, in a group that is not thought up of as enterprise, like K-12, K-12 generally takes a very long time for a new product category, but last quarter we sold more iPads in K-12 than we did Macs. And to do that after just five quarters is absolutely shocking. We would have never predicted this. And so we feel very, very good about the different areas that iPad is being sold into.

It is clear that it has a universal appeal in many different markets from consumer to business to government and on and on.

OPERATOR: Brian Blair, Wedge Partners.

BRIAN BLAIR, ANALYST, WEDGE PARTNERS: Can you just talk a little bit about your views on iCloud? And how do you feel as a service it is going to drive more volumes of Mac? And maybe just talk about what your expectations on the halo effect across other iOS devices?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: This is Peter. We cannot wait to get iCloud and iOS 5 into the hands of customers in the fall. We really think that we have done it right with iCloud. We are going to deliver customers just a seamless integrated experience that we think they're going to love. We are going to make it very easy.

It didn't go unnoticed to us yesterday that in the ChangeWave results, that was one of the reasons cited why the iOS devices are number one in terms of intend to buy.

BRIAN BLAIR: Maybe just briefly if you can comment on it, do you feel like you have much of a lead over competitors in the ability to instantly mirror content across different devices? It feels like that is a real -- like that is a real competitive edge for you, but I would love to hear your thoughts if you wouldn't mind sharing any.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we are certainly very, very good with the Internet, with telecommunications and delivering content. I think we have proven that for a decade, first beginning with iTunes and now with the App Store, and our payments to developers exceeding $2.5 billion.

So we probably have some things to learn as we go forward, but have a lot of skills and are very excited to get iCloud in customers' hands.

BRIAN BLAIR: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Tim, I wanted to revisit China and also prepaid phones. China Mobile recently said it has 5.6 million phones on its net -- iPhones on its network as of the end of May, and was adding them at an incredible rate. Now, obviously, China Mobile doesn't sell the phones. So that would certainly point to a lot of prepaid phones or unlocked phones on their network.

I believe, also, your direct distribution in China for the iPhone, both online and retail stores, is in a prepaid fashion. So I was wondering if you could tell us how significant prepaid is in China and other emerging markets, how much progress you have made there? And what lessons you have learned, given that you yourselves are also selling them prepaid? And I have a follow-up, please.

TIM COOK: Prepaid or unlocked phones are -- said more in English, phones sold without a contract, are very key in China, and very key in a number of the emerging markets where the credit systems are not as well established as they are in the US, Japan and Western Europe and Australia, et cetera.

So you can look at our volume, Toni, the iPhone volume for the first three quarters of the fiscal year was up 5 times year-over-year. And iPhone is a key contributor to Greater China having a cumulative revenue of around $8.8 billion for the first three quarters.

So I am not saying at all that we have figured out precisely how to play perfectly in the environment, we haven't. I think we have more to do and more to learn, but I feel very, very good about our progress there. I think if any of us would have been told a year ago that we would do $3.8 billion in Greater China in a quarter, I don't think very many of us would have believed it. And I don't think any of you would have believed it. So we feel very, very good about it. And we are taking those learnings and applying those to other markets as well.

TONI SACCONAGHI: If I could follow up. Your marketshare data is pretty irrefutable, and it is pretty consistent in terms of you being a share gainer. There are parts of the world in developed countries like UK, Germany, France and Japan where some of the recent market data suggest that you have actually lost share in iPhones on a year-over-year basis in Q2.

I was wondering if you could tell us whether gaining share in the smartphone category for iPhone is strategically important to Apple longer-term? And how we get our minds around sustained share gains given that most of the market data says smartphones above $300 are going to grow a lot slower than the overall smartphone market?

So how do we, A., are share gains important to Apple in this marketplace? And how do we reconcile where you participate in its market growth rate relative to the overall market?

TIM COOK: Share gain is important. Anywhere where we are going the opposite way then we are not happy, and you can bet that we are working hard to change that.

In terms of playing in different price points, we do offer the 3GS as an example today, which in the US is $49 with a contract. If you step that out into prepaid markets, it really depends upon the VAT and duty and channel kind of uplifts as to what it is. So it varies greatly market to market. But it is clearly in a distinctly different price than the iPhone 4 is.

Our philosophy is the same as it has always been, Toni. We will only make products that we are proud of, that are the best in the world. If we can do that, and the price is lower, then we are great with that.

An example of that that happened some time ago is the iPod Shuffle was created. It started at a different price point, but it is now at $49. That is because that is a product we are very proud of. It is very innovative, a lot of people love that product.

So that is always the question for us and the litmus test. We will only make products that we are very proud of that we want -- that are the best in the world, and regardless of what the price band analysis.

Also, as we have seen, and as I am reminded time and time again as I look at some of the China data, is it is up to us to convince people to maybe spend a little more for a materially better experience and product. We have seen that people will do that if the product is great and if it is messaged properly. We get a lot of experience in both of those areas.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brian Marshall, Gleacher & Company.

BRIAN MARSHALL, ANALYST, GLEACHER & COMPANY: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what you have learned with respect to media consumption on the iPad thus far?

TIM COOK: We learned that people love using it for a whole variety of things. And that is the beauty of the iPad is that if you talk to 10 people they would likely give you 10 different reasons that they love it. I think that is the reason it is doing so well among a very diverse group of consumers in a diverse group of businesses and markets and geographies.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Then perhaps a quick follow-up. With respect to content accumulation in regards to video, can you talk a little bit why we don't have more movie titles on iTunes at this point, and if we are going to be rectifying that in the future?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, it is Peter. We have a very, very broad library of movies and TV shows, particularly here in the United States. We are adding more content internationally each quarter. And look for some more content later this quarter across the various stores. We have some neat stuff coming.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Brian. That concludes our Q&A session. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes Store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Please enter confirmation code 991-5940.

These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5 PM Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896 and financial analyst can contact either Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I am at 408-974-5420.

And thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110803e77j0000b
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Navarre Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
4,818 words
   PD
8 June 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the fourth quarter 2011 Navarre earnings conference call. My name is [Dominique], and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session for the institutional analysts. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Ryan Urness, General Counsel.

   TD
RYAN URNESS, GENERAL COUNSEL/SECRETARY, NAVARRE CORP: Thank you, Dominique, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Navarre's fourth-quarter fiscal year 2011 conference call for the period ending March 31, 2011. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that a replay of the webcast can be found on our website at www.Navarre.com in the "Investors" section. Shortly after the call we will post a replay of this conference call on the website.

The following constitutes a safe harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except for historical information contained herein, these remarks contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These risks include, but are not limited to, general business conditions and the risks detailed in our periodic reports. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.

As to any non-GAAP financial measures discussed, we refer listeners to the discussion and financial tables, including a reconciliation between our GAAP non-GAAP financial measures, that are included in our press release dated June 7, 2011. This reconciliation table will also be available in the "Investors" portion of our website. With that, I would now like to introduce Reid Porter, the Chief Executive Officer of Navarre Corporation.

REID PORTER, CEO, NAVARRE CORP: Thank you, Ryan, and good morning everyone. Also joining me this morning is Diane Lapp, Vice President of Finance. After I provide a few opening remarks, Diane will review our fiscal year 2011 fourth-quarter financial results. I'll then provide some color to the year and outline our strategies and plans for fiscal year 2012. After that, we will open the call to analyst questions.

I would like to start by saying how pleased we are to have completed the sale of FUNimation Entertainment. The Japanese anime business proved not to be a good fit with our distribution and software publishing businesses. While it was profitable, the investments required to sustain the business and its reliance on the sales of DVDs were both of concern. Its sale allows us to accelerate the execution of our strategy to expand into new, growing revenue streams. Although we have already made significant headway in the acquisition of new lines of business, our Canadian expansion, and in growing our e-commerce fulfillment business, we look forward to deploying the capital from the FUNimation sale to further exploit these initiatives.

Let me highlight a few of the accomplishments during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. We ended the year at March 31 with no debt. This was achieved despite the use of $8 million in cash during the year in connection with the Punch! acquisition, and is before the receipt of cash from the FUNimation sale, which occurred in April. Our efforts to expend into Canada resulted in $42 million in Canadian sales, an increase of 63% from the prior year. We have added new consumer electronic and accessory product lines that have allowed us to more than double the sales of these products to $31 million. We look forward to seeing a similar or even accelerating rate of increase in the sales of these products during fiscal 2012.

We continue to see growth in our fulfillment of e-commerce sales. This rapidly-expanding sales channel accounted for sales of more than $49 million in fiscal 2011, an increase of 62%. These achievements, particularly in consumer electronics and accessories and in e-commerce, illustrate that we are heading in the right direction and are developing a critical mass to grow our business despite the soft market conditions in our traditional product categories of software and home video sold at retail. We are positioning Navarre for continued success as we open new opportunities for growth. Now, I would like to turn it over to Diane.

DIANE LAPP, VP OF FINANCE, NAVARRE CORP: Thank you, Reid, and good morning everyone. Net sales for the fourth quarter from continuing operations were $124 million, a 6% decline from last year. This reflects the reduced demand for software products, which was partially offset by sales increase of consumer electronics and accessories, home video products, and video games. Looking at the 2011 fiscal year, net sales were $491 million, roughly flat compared to the prior year.

Looking at our business segments, in distribution, fourth-quarter net sales were $122 million, a decrease of 6% over last year. This reflects continued sales improvement across a broad range of product categories in this segment, which were offset by a 15% decline in software sales during the quarter as compared to the prior year. Consumer electronics and accessory sales roughly doubled, as did video game products, due to the successful release of an exclusive video game. Our expansion into Canada also contributed to the segment's improvement. For the full 2011 fiscal year, net sales in distribution were essentially flat.

In the publishing segment, which does not include the results of FUNimation Entertainment, which is classified as discontinued operations, net sales for the fourth quarter were $7.7 million, down 10% from prior year. Net sales in the quarter resulted in a strong showing from the Punch! line of home design software and increased sales in Encore's proprietary e-commerce sales. However, the strength in those areas was offset during the quarter by a decline in sales of print productivity and gaming products. For the full 2011 fiscal year, this segment was relatively flat compared to the prior year.

For the fourth quarter, gross profit dollars from continuing operations decreased by $3.5 million compared to the prior year, and the gross margin percentage was 12.6%, down 1.8 percentage points compared to last year. Distribution gross margins were 9.9% for the quarter, two percentage points and $3.3 million below last year. This impact to gross margin was primarily a result of both reduced sales volume and gross margin percentage pressure in software. The software margin decline was the result of a mix of sales that included fewer high margin products. We expect some improvement on our sales mix going forward, which will have a positive impact on gross margin.

Gross margins at Encore during the fourth quarter were 46.3%, up 3.2 percentage points from the prior year. This reflected the growing impact of Encore's higher-margin e-commerce business and the addition of the higher margin Punch! business.

During the quarter, operating expenses from continuing operations rose 10%, with the largest single impact coming from the $1.7 million accrual in connection with the legal dispute. Aside from that matter, expenses decreased primarily as a result of not having booked any accrual for the Company's annual bonus program, offset by investments, to spur growth in both publishing and distribution segments. Other income during the fourth quarter of $386,000 largely represents foreign exchange gains related to Canadian receivables. During last year's fiscal fourth quarter, this activity generated a loss of $97,000.

Net income from continuing operations for our fourth quarter was $9.8 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, compared to $9.7 million or $0.27 per diluted share in last year's fourth quarter. Net income in this year's fourth quarter includes the impact of a $9.7 million income tax benefit arising out of the reversal of a valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. During the prior year's fourth quarter, we also recorded the impact of the $6.4 million income tax benefit arising out of the partial reversal of a valuation allowance last year. The Company's ability to consistently generate profitability spurred the decision to reverse the valuation allowance.

Our EBITDA from continuing operations was $1.2 million during the fourth quarter, which includes the impact of a $1.7 million accrual related to a legal dispute, compared to EBITDA of $5.5 million last year. Loss from discontinued operations of $849,000 before tax relates to the results of FUNimation Entertainment, which included a $2.1 million non-cash impairment charge during the fourth quarter. During that fourth quarter, the Company recognized a loss on the sale of FUNimation Entertainment in the amount of $8.1 million before tax.

Fourth-quarter net income was $4 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, compared to $9.2 million or 25% per diluted share in last year's fourth quarter. We ended the 2011 fiscal year with no debt, as compared to $6.6 million in debt at the end of the prior fiscal year. We are pleased that our continued efforts to manage working capital and drive cash flow from earnings have allowed us to maintain our commitment to aggressive debt reduction. Traditionally, our year end is the low point in our working capital requirements and will fluctuate over the course of the year, specifically with seasonality. From a cash flow perspective, we do not expect to pay federal cash taxes for several years, as our income will be offset by available, net operating loss carry forwards. I'd like to turn the discussion back to Reid.

REID PORTER: Thank you, Diane. While there were obviously some disappointments in our 2011 results, I believe that we have affirmed that we have a significant growth potential through our strategic initiatives. These include the strengthening of our stable of consumer electronic and accessory product lines, the build-out of our e-commerce services, and the geographic expansion that we have undertaken in Canada. These initiatives are increasingly becoming an important part of our foundation.

Our new business development team has spurred the addition of a host of new consumer electronic and technology accessory product offerings, and the investment in this business is generating considerable traction. These products represented $8 million in net sales in 2009, $14 million in fiscal 2010, and $31 million in fiscal 2011. The market opportunity for these products is practically limitless. We anticipate the sales of consumer electronics and accessories will more than double again during fiscal 2012, and we see great promise to continue that rate of increase for the foreseeable future.

As our roster of consumer electronics continues to increase, we have expanded the services that we offer to these vendors, allowing them to decrease their cost structures and to sell their products, not only through retail, but on a direct-to-consumer basis. This broadening of our service offering provides an opportunity for Navarre to capture new revenue streams while providing an opportunity for these companies to focus on product design, manufacturing, and marketing.

We have also opened new customer relationships as a result of these new product lines. We're establishing relationships with customers where we haven't had a presence, such as RadioShack and Home Shopping Network. Apple stores, where we just sell a modest amount of software, rose in fiscal 2011 to be one of our top five customers on the basis of accessories sales for the iPhone, iPad and iTouch.

We continue to see opportunities to expand in the Canadian market share across a number of product categories. One year ago, we opened our distribution facility in Toronto, and both our vendors and our Canadian customers have welcomed our presence in that market. Our expansion into Canada added more than $16 million in incremental sales during 2011, and we are lining up additional opportunities to build on this momentum in the current fiscal year.

Our e-commerce business has been centered on direct-to-consumer fulfillment for our retailers' web-based stores, such as Bestbuy.com and Costco.com. We have recently moved to provide fulfillment services to pure web-based retailers such as our previously-announced agreement with Warby Parker Eyeglasses. Demand for these services is growing rapidly, and many of our newer, more niche vendors are requiring more e-commerce services.

Encore continues to benefit from the growth of its e-commerce sales platform and from the content acquired in the Punch! acquisition. E-commerce sales grew over 100% from fiscal 2010 to 2011, and represents about 25% of Encore's sales. Encore's business model has evolved over time. Historically, we would license mature software and extend and optimize the value of its intellectual property through our retail channel. More recently, we have been buying or licensing all rights to the software, including digital rights, and maximizing the value of the software through all channels. We believe our leadership position in software distribution provides a unique advantage in identifying software to fold under Encore's wing to maximize its earnings potential. With this new model, Encore's selling and marketing expenses to support e-commerce sales are increasing, and we expect higher gross margin from the sales channel will boost profitability.

We are also investing in new versions of our software. This year, we plan new, upgraded versions of Hoyle Games, the Print Shop, Print Master, and IGT Slots to help drive sales.

We see fiscal year 2012 as a transformational year for Navarre, as we diversify our business to include new product lines and service offerings. As a part of this process, our Board of Directors has engaged Heidrick & Struggles to conduct a search for a new CEO with the right skills and experience to execute these initiatives.

In closing, our guidance for fiscal year 2012 is as follows. Net sales are expected to be between $490 million and $520 million, and EBITDA, before share-based comp, is expected to be between $11 million and $14 million. With that, I would like now to open the call to analyst questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line up Mark Argento of Craig-Hallum.

MARK ARGENTO, ANALYST, CRAIG-HALLUM CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys.

REID PORTER: Good morning, Mark.

MARK ARGENTO: Could you review, just quickly, I know you had thrown a couple numbers out there. One was the consumer electronics number. Just trying to better understand the mix in the distribution side right now, the mix of revenues. Just take the, I think it was $482 million, so was $31 million of that essentially the consumer electronics piece? Is that the way to think about it?

REID PORTER: Yes, that's the right number.

MARK ARGENTO: Okay. And so, the --

REID PORTER: And that's been -- we basically said that's been doubling, and we expect it to more than double this coming year.

MARK ARGENTO: Right. And so the remaining $450 million is predominantly software and/or media content? Is that right?

REID PORTER: Yes.

MARK ARGENTO: And I guess, my question is, does the growth in the accessories business, does that fall under your consumer electronics, that $31 million, I assume?

REID PORTER: I'm not sure I understood the question. Consumer electronics and accessories which is iPad, iPhone cases, iGrill, just a whole host of home monitoring devices now, is the $31 million. Basically, the other product lines sold by distribution are generally software, home video, home video games, sold into retail and also sold over -- through web-based stores.

MARK ARGENTO: Got you. And you mentioned $49 million of sales were coming through e-commerce channels. Maybe you could just walk me through a little bit of what that looks like?

REID PORTER: Well, the biggest piece of that is, with our current retail base, we generally service all their websites in the products we also provide them at retail. So, let's say if you go to Apple.com and buy an iPad case that we sell into Apple stores, we will ship same day if the order is received by 2 PM, direct to the Apple customer, and with Costco, Best Buy, Apple, Wal-Mart.com, we are electronically linked to all of them to be their direct-to-consumer provider in the categories we provide them at retail. We have also signed up a number of new vendors where we will serve their retail needs, but also, from their website, the vendor website, now, not the retail website, also ship their product direct-to-consumer. So for a small vendor, we can fulfill all their needs. We can, one, get them into retail, and two, we can do all there direct to consumer business. And we have what I would call, a fairly white-label shopping carts that services that we offer to people to offer a broader array of e-commerce services, and frankly, it's a business that we need to develop and grow and expand, and we are pretty basic in our current service offering.

MARK ARGENTO: Sure. What was -- if you had a number similar to the $49 million, apples-to-apples number from last year, is that business growing? That 20% plus, I would assume?

REID PORTER: Let's see, the previous year, we did $30 million, so we grew at 62% in that business year-over-year, and I think I used the 62% growth number in my talk, and I think it was in our press release, as well.

MARK ARGENTO: Okay. And then, looking at -- so the guidance for this year, $11 million to $14 million in EBITDA, doesn't sound like you are going to be paying much, if any, federal taxes. Maybe some state taxes, I would assume there?

REID PORTER: It's not a lot of state taxes. There's some minimums we pay, but not a lot of tax at all, no.

MARK ARGENTO: So if I wanted to try to get a better handle on free cash flow, what would be your expectation on the CapEx side this year? I assume, given the fact that you have some excess capacity on the CapEx side, I would assume that is fairly minimal?

REID PORTER: Yes, we really need nothing in the physical plant side. We have some modest software development we continue to do regarding business systems. For instance, we're upgrading some of our transportation module systems. But in total, we would expect just over $1 million in CapEx. Maybe I should say $1 million to $2 million. That is barring, obviously, any M&A activity than we might consider.

MARK ARGENTO: Sure. And then, any major changes needed on the working capital side?

REID PORTER: Generally and historically, we have tried to manage growth with working capital neutral. As the accessory business grows, it's going to turn -- the inventories are going to turn slower than that because we don't have the huge volumes that we have with some of our software vendors. So I would expect some build in inventory to occur. I would like to keep it around $4 million to $5 million in the course of the year. But we think, as we grow that business, we can't keep inventories, receivables, and payables neutral as we have generally done in our base business.

MARK ARGENTO: Sure. Well, I mean, it sounds like $11 million to $14 million EBITDA should generate a decent amount of free cash, plus the cash on the balance sheet. Any thoughts on -- by my calculation, you guys are trading below four times on an EV to EBITDA basis, which is -- which I would consider cheap, even --.

REID PORTER: We do, too, Mark.

MARK ARGENTO: Right. And I understand the desire to want to grow business and look at doing acquisitions and so on and so forth as well, but any real thought and consideration about doing something in terms of putting in some type of share buyback program or something here at that -- take advantage of what looks to be a mispriced asset here?

REID PORTER: Yes. I -- the Board will regularly review our cash position and make a determination if a share buyback program is warranted. I would expect they would choose a share buyback position before they would choose a dividend. And it will -- in my expectation, it would be a quarter, two quarters before we have good enough visibility on whether we have better uses for the cash in terms of investments that are accretive and benefit shareholders versus a share buyback. That's just a long-winded way of saying we will continue to watch it and monitor that decision.

MARK ARGENTO: Sure. No, I appreciate that. And then just dovetailing, my last question would be, so basic criteria around acquisitions, if you were to do any, what's the -- what are the one, two, or three type of key attributes that they have to provide you guys?

REID PORTER: Well, I don't think we are -- well first of all, there's three types of acquisitions we can do. One is, modest, both on to Encore's stable of software. The Punch! acquisition worked out very well for us, and any other acquisitions like that, we would obviously consider.

On the distribution side, if there's additional verticals we can bring in to flow additional product through, we've often said we can more than double our business. We believe we have the capacity, obviously depending on proliferation of SKU counts and things like that. But we believe we have the capacity to more than double our throughput with very little investment in facilities or systems. So any vertical we could acquire, that would have to be immediately, in my mind, accretive to shareholders.

And the third is, is in the e-commerce area where we are continuing to provide and offer services. Some of them will be but service partners, but at time, acquisitions that more complete our service offering in that regard, usually again, probably fairly modest we would certainly be and are actively looking at now.

MARK ARGENTO: Great. Thanks, Reid.

REID PORTER: Okay. Thanks, Mark.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ernest Andberg of Feltl and Company.

ERNEST ANDBERG, ANALYST, FELTL AND COMPANY: Good morning, Reid.

REID PORTER: Good morning, Ernie.

ERNEST ANDBERG: Hey, on the consumer electronics and accessories, obviously big growth. You said that Apple-related product there has made it, I think you said, a top five vendor. Are there any other --

REID PORTER: Not a vendor. Apple, which used to be a relatively small customer of ours, is now one of our top five customers.

ERNEST ANDBERG: I'm sorry. I'm backwards. Yes.

REID PORTER: So they -- and matter of fact, if you try to -- if you are a small guy, and you try to go into the Apple store and get your product placed, Apple will probably tell you to come to us. And we'll ship it through us into Apple stores, and we can not only get product placement at Apple, but we've just placed our first accessory lines, actually it is Agent18 iPad and iPhone cases, into Wal-Mart, and that is gaining traction. We are actively working with Target in its appcessory area, and RadioShack, which didn't use to be a customer of ours, is actively talking to us about us putting in a two-foot section, two-foot by six-foot section of accessories in their 4,000 Company-owned stores. And this is all just starting, so we feel we are really getting some traction in this area that we have invested in in the last couple of years.

ERNEST ANDBERG: That answers my question. Other -- it seemed like Apple was dominant here, but there are other things going on to help your progress in the area, right?

REID PORTER: Yes. And obviously, Best Buy is our largest customer, and we are also dealing with them in accessories, and we're also getting some traction in Canadian stores as well.

ERNEST ANDBERG: Okay. Back on the cash flow line, you were debt-free at the end of the year; you've got $24 million of cash coming in; your investment in working capital normally goes up during the first three quarters. Should we expect to see you using the cash there? Or will there be some interest expense in the lines in those three quarters, do you think, Reid?

REID PORTER: Well, the amount of interest expense -- first of all, we are amortizing fees. And so that's roughly $0.5 million a year in fees. And then we have an unused line fee. You know we have a $65 million line, and that's at 75 basis points, so that's about another $0.5 million year, roughly. So you will see $1 million in interest expense on those two items -- over the course of the year, which isn't a lot, and half of that is non-cash, obviously. And then, we may seasonally dip in and need some -- may need to borrow, particularly in September through November, December, which is the seasonal high for us.

ERNEST ANDBERG: Okay. That helps me. Thanks. NOLs are there. We don't have the whole 10-K in front of us, Reid. What are the NOLs in the balance sheet? And have you reversed all of the valuation allowance at this point?

REID PORTER: Yes. The second question, yes. We did reverse all valuation allowance because now, our projections show we'll clearly used all our NOLs, and we have roughly $75 million remaining. I think -- I don't know what the K will say, maybe $77 million in NOLs. So we have a significant amount available to -- before we need to pay any taxes.

ERNEST ANDBERG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Again --

ERNEST ANDBERG: Excuse me. Reid?

REID PORTER: Yes, I'm here.

ERNEST ANDBERG: On the Encore and Punch!, I think you said in your comments that Punch! was about 25% of the revenue stream there right now. That means --

REID PORTER: No, Ernie, I said that the e-commerce portion was 25%.

ERNEST ANDBERG: Okay, fair enough.

REID PORTER: Punch! is $6 million to $7 million in revenue in the past year.

ERNEST ANDBERG: Okay.

REID PORTER: So again, that's a little less than 25%.

ERNEST ANDBERG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions).

REID PORTER: No other questions?

OPERATOR: No, Sir. This concludes our question-and-answer session for today's call. I would now like to hand the call over to Mr. Reid Porter, Chief Executive Officer, for closing remarks.

REID PORTER: That's a fine introduction. Again, I'd just like to thank everybody for their time and support, and our next conference call isn't coming up in the near future. It will be at the end of July sometime, so I hope to talk to you then. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect, and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
navarc : Navarre Corp | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | iebus : E-business (B2B) | iecom : E-commerce | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
cana : Canada | usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110622e768002xl
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,169 words
   PD
11 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

YANG FONG, DIRECTOR FOR IR, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LTD.: Good morning to everybody; a warm welcome to all investors and analysts. You are listening to SingTel's earnings conference call for the quarter and full year ended March 31, 2011.

   TD
My name is Yang Fong and let me introduce the management on the call. Ms. Chua Sock Koong, Group CEO.

CHUA SOCK KOONG, GROUP CEO, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LTD.: Hi everyone.

YANG FONG: Mr. Allen Lew, CEO Singapore.

ALLEN LEW, CEO SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LTD.: Hi.

YANG FONG: Mr. Paul. O'Sullivan, CEO Optus; Mr. Hui Weng Cheong, CEO International.

HUI WENG CHEONG, CEO INTERNATIONAL, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LTD.: Hello.

YANG FONG: Ms Jeann Low, Group CFO. They are assisted by members of the management team from both in Australia and Singapore.

Before we start taking questions, I would like to invite Sock Koong to share some highlights from this set of results; Sock Koong over to you.

CHUA SOCK KOONG: This morning, we reported our results of the quarter and the full year ended March 31, 2011 and is of course, a resilient quarter.

If you look at our numbers, revenues were up 4%; both Singapore and Australia operations registered growth. Net profit was, however, down 2% to SGD992 million. But if you are to exclude the impact of Bharti Africa, then underlying net profit would have risen 1%.

In Singapore, our revenues were stable and the strong growth in mobile was partially offset by [both -- rollout] revenues. And revenue growth would have been 3% if we exclude fiber rollout; EBITDA behind 5%, mainly as a result of new TV content and service costs.

In Australia, revenues were up 4% and that's driven by continued growth in mobile.

EBITDA was up a much stronger 7%, with contributions from all business segments and reflecting prudent cost management.

The Group and associates continued to register strong customer growth. We now have 403 million mobile customers.

Earnings from the regional and mobile associates, however, declined 12%, impacted by regional currency weakness, Bharti's fair value losses on its one time currency liabilities compared to gains last year; and losses from Bharti Africa. If we are to exclude Bharti Africa, earnings from the regional and mobile associates would be lower by 8%.

Also, I want to highlight that the Board has recommended a final ordinary dividend of SGD0.09 and a special dividend of SGD0.10 per share.

Including the interim dividend of SGD0.068 that was paid in January this year, total cash distribution is a record SGD25.8 per share or a yield of 8%. And the total of new dividends increased 11% and that represents 66% of underlying net profit.

With the proposed cash distribution of SGD4.1 billion this year, our cumulative payout in the last 10 years amounted to SGD26 billion or 76% of earnings over the same period. So again, I think this payout is a demonstration of our strong track record of cash returns and also our commitment to achieve optimum capital structure.

We will review on a three-year basis our cash needs for operations and growth, as well as for strategic initiatives, with a view to returning surplus cash to shareholders.

So I think with that, let me hand back to Yang Fong.

YANG FONG: Thank you Sock Koong. I would like to remind participants that this call will last for about an hour. (Operator Instructions). Our operator will now assist you to put through your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Andrew Levy, Macquarie Australia.

ANDREW LEVY, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Just one question for Paul on subscriber acquisition costs. You're obviously seasonally a bit lower this quarter but about flat on the same quarter the year before. I was just wondering if you could talk to how you're looking at the FY '12 year from subscriber acquisition costs; and perhaps if you could talk to the key drivers around mix, customer preferences, handset costs; and also if the A dollar's having an impact.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN, CEO, OPTUS: Thanks Andrew. Obviously, we are not able to give forecasts of future trends, but what I can do is ask Murray to talk about some of the drivers that are visible in our numbers today.

MURRAY KING, CFO, OPTUS: Andrew, as you've seen historically over the last two years in particular, our subscriber acquisition costs have been around the AUD200 to AUD250 mark. That's a consequence of higher smartphone mix and that's driven, obviously, by strong customer growth.

Our postpaid customer base is up 14% year-on-year; our postpaid ARPU, ex-wireless broadband continues to demonstrate growth. So we're driving higher value customers as a consequence. And as we go forward where there's opportunity for us to secure higher value customers, we'll continue to do so.

ANDREW LEVY: And on the A dollar is that having an impact?

MURRAY KING: The A dollar, obviously, depreciates from the A dollar where we do have manufacturers supplying from overseas facilities, there is a positive impact. But we look to hedge those positions on a regular basis.

YANG FONG: Andrew, does that answer you question?

ANDREW LEVY: That does, thank you, yes.

YANG FONG: Operator, can we move to the next question?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Laurie, JPMorgan.

LAURENT HORRUT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CAZENOVE: Maybe a couple of questions for Paul. Just on the Optus guidance, it looks to me like a reasonably conservative guidance, just on the back of what you've just done in the last 12 months; low single digit revenue and EBITDA growth.

I was wondering if you make any specific MTR assumption in that guidance. And more generally, what's underpinning the guidance for the key drivers and do you factor in any specific impact from Telstra's resurgence in the broadband and mobile markets? Just, I'm interested in the thinking behind it.

And just on the 47,000 net loss in prepaid, can you just give us a little bit more explanation on what these international calls for less plans were? And why have you seen this increase in churn in that particular category of the customer base? And how many customers are actually on these plans today?

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: Okay, thanks Laurent. Actually I'll take the first and then I'll maybe ask Mike Smith to talk on the second.

Just looking at the market outlook to give you a bit of background as to what we see today. What we see is increasing competitiveness. We take a perverse pleasure out of the fact that we have forced significant restructuring by both our major competitors in the mobile market.

And certainly the impact of the largest player starting to take [AUD1 billion] off their bottom line, which is now visible in the industry in terms of greater allowances and plans, greater sign on bonuses, more aggressive subsidies and loyalty.

That's all visible and we clearly believe that whilst we're holding our own in terms of our performance and you can see that in our numbers, nonetheless, it's going to have an impact on industry growth rates overall.

One of the things we've yet to see, for example, is Telstra's own revenue results. And we are keen to understand ourselves what has been the impact of caps on their own revenue line as they come inside their own bases; what's the quality and ARPUs associated with their fairly impressive wireless broadband reported numbers.

So we need to see all these things in order to get a better understanding of the trends. But I think, fundamentally, when you see a major competitor eroding their own earnings that substantively, it's bound to have an impact on industry growth rates.

And so when we look forward, we are very committed to protecting our revenue share and our scale position. And clearly in our guidance, we're reflecting what we believe will be a very competitive market over the next 12 months.

That's really the background for why we are where we are. I'll pass over to Mike to talk a bit about a bit more the profile of the international calls for less customers.

MIKE SMITH, MANAGING DIRECTOR CONSUMER, OPTUS: Hi Laurent, a couple of things. Firstly in prepaid, I think, the overall industry is a little bit softer. We've seen increasingly in low-end postpaid the competitiveness of those plans and people moving over to those, chasing handset and good rate plans.

Specifically, there's a question in relation to international calls for less; this segment emerged in the Australian market about 18 months to two years ago and was a shift of what historically had been a calling card business, where people went to a (inaudible) trade shop, a newsagent and purchased a calling card to make calls on fixed or mobile services.

That whole category shifted into a direct SIM card moving forward and it was very cheap international low cost routed calls across the SIM card. And one of the things that is very typical about the base is, similar to calling cards, there is a high propensity to churn that service at the back end.

In respect of the question as to how many of them in our base, less now than there was before, although we don't disclose specific information about the size of the different products inside of our business.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: So Laurent, have we answered your questions for you?

LAURENT HORRUT: Yes, just one clarification, just in terms of [MTR] assumption. I know it will kick in anyway from January 1, 2012. So are you assuming a constant MTR rate for FY '12?

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: Yes, we're arguing very much for maintenance and for consistency. The points we make and we'll make these very publicly and very aggressively are, that if you look at the characteristics of the Australian market, it has fundamentally different economic structures to that of North West Europe, where it has much greater population density and much greater ability to return, get a return on capital.

Second of all, if you look at the volume of data traffic, and the amount of capital investment required in Australia goes in 3G and then in 4G ,to provide services to customers, that obviously drives a pretty aggressive dynamic on investment here.

And thirdly, if you look at the fact that, unlike many markets overseas, we've not seen a real change in fixed line market share in terms of landlines, and it's still the case that the majority of traffic that terminates off fixed landlines, comes from one player. And there is no legislative mechanism to force that player to hand back any windfall they get in lower termination rates. We've just witnessed that over the last three years.

Those three points are really substantive and important points as to why the mobile termination rate in Australia should be held at or about the same level, and that's the advocacy you'll hear us make very publicly.

LAURENT HORRUT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Sachin Gupta, Nomura.

SACHIN GUPTA, ANALYST, NOMURA: I've got a few things, firstly congratulations on the dividend and the results. Just definite dividend policy first of all, the comment states that only every three years you will look to review your cash needs and the other initiatives, I'm just wondering why such an explicit statement on the dividend policy given your cash should be strong every year I would imagine?

Secondly Allen, just on the OpenNet business, you have had probably SGD0.5 billion in revenues so far, I'm just wondering how much more are you expecting from the construction revenues?

And secondly, when can we expect meaningful a contribution from the access revenues, because the take up rates have been pretty low? And if the take up rate remains pretty low, will that impact your ability to reduce your stake in the business by 2013 and 2014?

And lastly Paul, just a [small] question in satellite business, if you know it, I see the revenues every three months seems to be going up to SGD70 million/SGD75 million, you've got the NBN deal, you are looking to launch new satellite as well, just wondering can we expect or can we imagine this business turning into like a SGD100 million quarterly revenue business in a few years time, because the margins would be quite strong on this I imagine?

YANG FONG: Sachin, I think you might have too many questions at one go, so just on the dividend question first, I would get Jeann to probably help you answer that. Jeann is now [offering support].

JEANN LOW, GROUP CFO, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LTD.: Okay I think -- let me just talk through our approach to cash management. Obviously I think we are very cognizant to optimum balance sheet. And when we have increased ordinary dividends here [55% to 70%] what we are seeing in terms of ordinary dividend is [56%] of underlying earnings.

And if you look at our investments over the last few years, over the last three years we have not made any significant acquisitions. As a result we have achieved built up surplus cash, which is why at this -- at a review that was concluded recently, the Board has agreed to a special dividend of SGD0.10 per share and that will of course go to shareholders for approval at our coming AGM. And the idea of course is to get -- help us get to optimum balance sheet.

What the dividend pay-out ratio that we have in place, that provides enough financial flexibility for us to fund our ongoing CapEx requirements, the growth initiative and any opportunities and that is why we have structured our pay out as such. But of course if over a period of time, if we don't make any investments, we will look at doing capital management initiatives, which is why we set three years and that is to allow us enough to further clean up the position if cash gets built up over a period of time.

And we think that three years is probably a reasonable period of time, where we may have enough surplus cash built up, and no acquisitions or CapEx expenditure has been somewhat contained.

So this review of cash, regulated dividends, etc., will go on, but a review for special dividends is something we will do once every three years.

YANG FONG: Sachin can I ask you to repeat your question on OpenNet.

JEANN LOW: Sachin, have I answered your question on dividends?

SACHIN GUPTA: Yes, I think that's fine thanks. The question for Allen was, this OpenNet, we've had a large contribution from the construction revenues so far, when can we expect -- or what's management's view on when can we start seeing access revenues come through?

ALLEN LEW: Basically Sachin, basically we are talking about access revenues that we get as a result being a retail service producer. We already started selling from October, in competition with three to four others.

I think right now that revenue is captured under our data and Internet revenue stream, in our MD&A. We don't disclose our fiber revenue at this stage separately because it's still a small part of our overall data and Internet revenue. As it gets bigger, we will at some point start to disclose it.

Basically we think that right now these [have already been disclosed by IVA], there are approximately 18,000 to 20,000 fiber customers in Singapore, that was at the end of February 2011. And we know, based on what we've connected or what is our market share and I think it's reasonable, based on our calculations, to assume that it's in line with the market share that we had for DSL currently. Does that answer your question?

SACHIN GUPTA: Yes I think Allen. [I guess that's good] -- that's fine, but I was just trying to gauge if the take up rates remains low, we're not seeing a massive pick up so far, will that impact your ability to reduce a stake in this asset?

JEANN LOW: I think you are probably confusing OpenNet where we have 30% stake and you know there are no intentions, there are no plans currently for us to vary the shareholding.

But there is a separate asset core which would hold the assets -- the passive infrastructure, the [core] and the ducts is extra. And that asset core is set up as a business trust and there are plans, and that is part of the whole NBN arrangement with the regulator. And there are requirements for us to [sell] that down by 2014, and we should hope no more than 25% at that time.

SACHIN GUPTA: Okay thanks.

OPERATOR: Richard Eary, UBS.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: I'm sorry we've got one last question I think from Sachin, which is just briefly on the satellite business, so Murray you might just comment briefly on that.

MURRAY KING: Yes Sachin, I think your question is, the growth in our satellite business. Firstly we don't comment and provide guidance on individual business revenues or profitability but I think you've seen strong growth in the business over the last 12 months period. You've also seen [it announced], a significant number-- two significant contracts, particularly the provision of digital free to air services that the Australian Government just switches over from analog to digital services in regional Australia. And more recently the provision of a interim NBN solution to the last 7% of the Australian population for broadband services over a five year period.

The other point we would make is the announcement of the Optus 10 satellite launch, will not only provide an additional capacity of the fleet, but provide greater resilience in the form of backup capacity for the revenue streams we already provide to our customer base.

RICHARD EARY, ANALYST, UBS: Just a question actually for Sock Koong and Paul actually, Just looking at the financials now over the last five or six years, just from an Optus point of view, mobile revenues have gone from [SGD3.8 billion] up to [SGD6 billion], EBITDA is flat, but the actual CapEx number has actually nearly more than doubled over that six year period. So, given the management is re-numerated on a ROIC model, when can we start to expect to see some ROIC start to stabilize if not turn within that Optus mobile business? That's the first question.

The second question is, in terms of looking at the wholesale numbers in the accounts, it looks as though probably 50% to 60% of all new net growth has come from wholesale subscribers in this financial year. I'm just wondering if you could sort of talk through what the impacts of that have been on the financials, because it's a bit difficult to extrapolate?

And then the last question just on CapEx for Optus, you did just over AUD1 billion versus the guidance of AUD1.2 billion, can you just talk through where those savings came from and whether we can extrapolate that going forward?

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: Okay, Sock Koong, I'm happy to lead on this first question if you like?

CHUA SOCK KOONG: Yes please.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: Okay, so Richard, I'm not quite sure which year you're using as a baseline but certainly if you go back four or five years --

RICHARD EARY: Say five.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: Yes, if you go back to that distance, that's the time when we were losing market share. And if you compare our acquisition rate to our acquisition rate more recently, and our revenue performance -- our revenue acquisition performance, you would see a dramatic difference in profile.

What we have done successfully, over the last three year in particular, is start to regain revenue market share while we dramatically accelerate our rate of acquisition and the quality of the acquisition that we provide.

So I think a more appropriate way to look at the business is to look at it across the different metrics to say, for the sort of EBITDA margin we're getting, for the investment we're making in acquisition costs, are we driving good outcomes. And in that sense, the fact that both for the quarter and the full year we've put in 7.5% absolute dollar EBITDA growth, reflects the fact that the investment is generating a good return and a good payoff for us.

And when we look at our return on invested capital, taking into account the depreciation of capital that we've already invested and retired, we're quite satisfied that the performance we're turning in is generating a good return for us. And I think that's been visible overall in the overall Optus performance.

If you want to go into more detail on a baseline year, I'm happy to go through that with you. Probably one-on-one might be a more profitable way, but I think the fundamentals really are the contrast between a company that is today driving revenue market share expansion versus one that five years ago was actually losing share.

In fact, coming to you second point on the wholesale, I might ask Murray to talk a little bit about the wholesale numbers. I think if I understood your question correctly, you're trying to understand what's the effective contribution of wholesale to the growth we're showing in the numbers?

RICHARD EARY: That's correct.

MURRAY KING: Yes, I think you're referencing of the MD&A and the KPI we include there as a percent of the customer base on the wholesale. The first point I'd make is that those numbers, all those percentages that we disclosed there, are rounded percentages. So in relation to contribution to our overall customer base, you can't get the specific numbers as a consequence of that rounding. We do -- at a general point our Wholesale business is quite a key element of our Mobile business. It allows us to address particular market segments that the Optus brand doesn't naturally go to.

Having said that, in relation to the contribution to customer growth, the Wholesale contribution, as an overall proportion of the overall customer growth, is not inconsistent with what we've seen in prior quarters.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: Okay, and then --

MURRAY KING: CapEx, I think Richard you were asking a question on guidance on CapEx, the AUD1.2 billion versus our last year AUD1 billion. Is that correct?

RICHARD EARY: Yes, just to try and find out where you thought the savings came from, where we can extrapolate that?

JEANN LOW: Paul, this is Jeann, can I just add on to Richard's first question on the return on invested capital and Optus' performance. I think when we look at return on invested capital we look at the net returns. We look at returns before the interest expense and then obviously look at the invested capital at Optus.

So just looking at operational EBITDA itself, just looking at the EBITDA number itself, although Paul has highlighted that even on the Mobile business we've grown 7.5%, and if you look at overall Optus, it's achieved growth of 8.4%. And if you look at the net profit after tax for Optus, it's actually improved by 15%. So Richard I'm not sure where you get your numbers, so I just want to put it on record that the numbers -- the performance for Optus on a year-on-year basis for the full year is actually quite strong.

MURRAY KING: And then just rounding out Richard, on your CapEx question. You've seen us historically invest around AUD1 billion and that was -- and you saw that in FY '11 And our guidance in respect of AUD1.2 billion of CapEx investment actually recognizes some phasing elements as we continue to invest in our mobile network, both from a coverage and quality or depth in capacity in our network. We do see that investment increasing to around the AUD1.2 billion for the next financial year.

RICHARD EARY: Thanks guys.

OPERATOR: Luis Hilado, HSBC.

LUIS HILADO, ANALYST, HSBC: Congrats on the results. I have three questions on Singapore. Just looking at the -- the first one is on prepaid ARPUs, quite a healthy increase Q-on-Q and year-on-year. Is that being driven by wireless data or it's more improved yields on Voice and SMS?

The second question is regarding national telephone revenues, Mobiles -- Fixed Mobile substitution is happening but the drop this quarter seems to be quite steep. Should we expect similar drops going forward or is there some one-off event that's happened in the quarter?

And the last question is more on strategy with the iPad 2. Previously iPad 1, yourselves and other operators didn't subsidize or put it in any major plans. What has changed for the iPad 2 and why are you now willing to provide a partial subsidy on it?

ALLEN LEW: Okay, let me take the three questions one by one, starting with the pre-pay ARPU, what's driving that growth. Basically what's driving the growth is two things. Number one is we launched 3G on prepaid mobiles for the first time in third quarter of the last financial year and that has helped us garner higher value customers and shifted some usage from just pure voice to a little bit of data as well.

The second important thing that we've done that has resulted in prepaid ARPU increases, we've also shifted our sales focus a little bit more away from foreign manual laborers to also foreign workers in the service sector. Those who were coming in, for example as service workers in the integrated resorts, in the hospitals, etc.. So these tend to be slightly higher ARPU customers and we're targeting our sales channels towards them. So I hope that answers the first question.

Going to the second one, which was the 5%, I think, drop in national tel revenue. I think the main reason for that -- actually if we look at national tel, the strange phenomenon will be that actually our -- between last year and now we've actually increased the number of their lines and, but the usage that we've seen has declined quite significantly primarily because of fixed to mobile substitutions. So that is the main reason that's accounting for the 5% drop.

The third important point is a very interesting question, why the interest now in SingTel to sell iPad 2? I think SingTel has been embarking on a strategy to transform ourselves into a multimedia Company and one of the things that we do as a multimedia Company is make our content available across multiple devices. That means whatever we have on mio TV we put on mobile devices as well, which a tablet is a very important portable entertainment device.

The second important thing that we do in multimedia is to develop applications that we can be distinctive in and these applications are always in the ultra-local sphere. And that's where we have our music product, which -- iTunes doesn't have the ability to sell music in Singapore but we have ANZ, which is our music product, we have Delite, which is our electronic magazine product which is also ideally suited to tablets.

So when you take those applications and content into consideration, it gives us a good opportunity to upsell our applications and our contents where we can also sell the hardware. So that's the reason why we were so aggressive with Apple to allow us to sell the iPad 2 in our shops and from Saturday we'll be able to do that.

But basically this is a hardware platform which does not just sell our data plans but to upsell our applications and contents So I hope that really explains to you the strategy of why we're so interested in terms of iPad 2.

LUIS HILADO: Okay, thanks Allen. Just one follow-up on the national telephone revenue, do you think the 5% decline will persist for the coming quarters or --?

ALLEN LEW: Yes, I think DEL, I can't give you an absolute number. We continue to see that DEL is a good cash cow for us, so we'll try and slow down the decline as much as we can. I think historically it's probably around that range, so I think you can look at the trending and make some judgment on your own.

LUIS HILADO: Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Sachin Mittal, DBS Vickers Securities.

SACHIN MITTAL, ANALYST, DBS VICKERS SECURITIES: I have three questions. First is to Allen, during SingTel's conference in Bangalore, Allen had mentioned about moving away from Apple towards more in Android Phones? And secondly, intimating airlines-kind of model in terms of business class and economy class. So my question is, are you happy with that option of Android Phones in Singapore until now and how far are we from airlines-kind of model and would you need LG to implement that kind of model? And if you can share some details on what are your plans for LG, that would be great?

Second question is for Australia, we have seen a potential decline in the costs, especially the outpayment and [leave] costs in 4Q. I understand this could be due to the Aussie dollar [diffusion], but my question is why did you feel this decline, especially in the fourth quarter? And we didn't feel this decline in 3Q and 2Q. So is this some kind of accounting over there?

And the last question is on the free cash flow for the Group. When you say SGD4 billion free cash flow, does it include deductions for -- of about SGD600 million for the regional investment you have made in Bharti and globe? I'm just trying to understand what is the free cash flow which we are generating for the dividend -- the shareholders. I'm just trying to get over (inaudible). Thank you.

JEANN LOW: Just on the free cash flow -- I will do that very quickly. This is Jeann. Free cash flow is operating cash flow less our capital expenditures so it does not adjust for the Bharti [uptake]. That is under investing activity.

ALLEN LEW: All right. If I move back to the first question on Singapore which has two parts, let me address the first part. Moving towards Android. I think as a network operator and as a service provider, we like to see diversity of choice on the hardware platform for our customers. So obviously we know that there are a couple of major operating system standards out there, which Android is one, Apple is the other, you've got Blackberry, you've now got Windows Mobile 7. We've been trying to push all of them.

I think at the end of the day, we've had success in pushing Android, and we do have a number of significant ultra-local applications that run on Android as well. We don't disclose publicly the spread across our network, except to say that you know today, more than 50% of our mobile postpaid base is already on a smartphone of some sort.

So I think if you look at the advertising that you see us do a significant proportion of our advertising on the weekends on our retail offers, we do focus on alternative operating systems other than just Apple. And we do, in those advertisements, do highlight some of the applications and services that you get from us, music, mobile TV, on some of these platforms.

The second question also on the business class, mobile data service, that one is still in the works. We are still on target to deliver that towards calendar Q4 this year, early part of that. And basically, the rationale for that is based on our surveys of the public, in terms of their mobile data usage. I think we're getting significant insights on that survey to indicate speed that it's not just a question of speed that they're looking for. It's also a question of consistency of this, especially now that they are accepting the Internet on their smartphones, or on their tablets or other mobile devices. And the Internet today is full of nothing but videos, and that's driving Internet usage.

So we are moving towards a business-class service that would be more suited for people who want a consistent experience with videos on the Internet as well as for our enterprise customers who want a better mobile business service. And LTE will help us to achieve that, because LTE gives us another spectrum at 2.6 gig which we can then use to enable us to deliver a better mobile business service. LTE is on schedule. We will launch it together with our infrastructure provider also early part of this Q4 calendar year.

SACHIN MITTAL: And just to follow, when you say 2.6 GHz, is it the same standard to be used for all the operators in Singapore? Or we should be expecting different operators using different LTE spectrum?

ALLEN LEW: I think if you look at the spectrums that the different operators occupy, whether it's FDD or TDD, you'll find that, actually, at 2.6 GHz, we are the only people that can have something that fits the LTE range of handsets and infrastructure. There's also 1800 MHz frequency in Singapore which can be used for LTE, and I believe some of our competitors may be well using that. So I think you have to see what happens. I don't think everybody's going to be at 2.6 GHz.

SACHIN MITTAL: Which means that handsets have to come equipped with both 1800 MHz and 2.6 GHz at the same time for LTE.

ALLEN LEW: Yes, I think when you look at LTE the first handsets are all 700 MHz, because I think that is something that's driven out of the US, and then the next batch of equipment 2.6 GHz, and then the third batch is coming out 1800 MHz because of some usage in Europe and I understand in Australia as well.

SACHIN MITTAL: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Arthur Pineda, Citigroup.

JEANN LOW: We need to answer the question that he had on Optus.

MURRAY KING: Yes, I'll take that, it's Murray King from Optus. On the outpayment question, I'll just refer you to page 53 of the MD&A, first in relation to tracking expenses in general. You're right, they're only up 2%, but if you look at the commentary, interconnect costs, which are the domestic interconnect costs, are up 9% year on year, and this is a result of the overall mobile service revenue growth.

If you then look at outpayment and other costs, they are down, in part because the Australian dollar, in part because of better negotiation of rate. But I'd also refer you to the commentary, where there was a one-off reversal of an outpayment provision no longer required in this particular quarter, resulting in the overall outpayment growth being reduced to 2%. If you take that one-off adjustment out, the overall traffic expenses increased by 7.5%.

OPERATOR: Arthur Pineda, Citigroup.

ARTHUR PINEDA, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Three questions from me. Firstly, in the domestic business, SAC trends seem to keep trending downwards. Would you be able to provide some color on what is driving this? Is this mostly on delays on smartphone take-up at this stage? Or are you seeing a change with regard to the composition of the handsets?

Secondly, it seems that regional opportunities are quite limited at this point for acquisitions. Wondering if management would actually consider looking outside of Asia, or if it would prefer to see capital being redeployed to shareholders instead?

Lastly, again on regional investments, there's been a lot of talk that San Miguel is looking to expand in the Philippines. There's also a lot of chatter that SingTel may be looking to exit Telkomsel. Wondering what the commitment is to holding these assets, and would you be willing to monetize if there's a party who offers you a material premium? Or would you consider these six as strategic? Thank you.

ALLEN LEW: Okay, let me answer the SAC decline question for Singapore first. There are three things driving that. Number one is a removal of port-in offers compared to the same time last year. Remember the same time last year was the first quarter of the early stage of our competitors getting Apple iPhone. Now everybody's got it, the competition's a bit more stabilized, and so we don't see the need to have a port-in offer. That's the [SGD100] offer that we used to have, so we've taken that out.

The second is of course the impact of the strength of Singapore dollar with the US dollar. A lot of our equipment are paid for in US dollar, so that has dropped significantly in Singapore dollar terms.

And then the third is basically just a mix between smartphones and dongles or mobile data of customers. So I think that also mobile data we don't subsidize that significantly, so that has led to a decline in the overall SAC subscriber acquisition costs.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: In the Asia region opportunities for new acquisitions are rather restricted. But whether we're looking outside Asia region, that depends on the opportunities available. Obviously, if a purchase comes by and it makes sense for us, then obviously we will consider.

With regards to San Miguel, yes, there's a lot of chatter in the market about them coming in with their investment in four companies with frequencies in 700 MHz, 1800 MHz as well as the 900 MHz. This is just chatter in the market, we are not able to comment on semi-growth plans.

With regards to Telkomsel, I think we are a long-term investor in Asia. We are upbeat about opportunities in the Asian market, largely also because of the expected growth in the data market. So as of now we are still very much involved in Telkomsel, and we look at it as a very strategic investment for us.

ARTHUR PINEDA: Understood. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Alice Bennett, CBA Equities.

ALICE BENNETT, ANALYST, CBA EQUITIES: I have a couple of questions. Just wondering if you could give us a bit more color around what's happening in the Philippines with regards to PLDT and their offer to the number three player. I understand Globe has asked the government to intervene, or the regulator. Could you just talk us through what your thoughts are there? I would have thought consolidation in the market may be positive, but just what Globe's concerns are. If they're thinking PLDT will be too concentrated in their share of the market.

I just have a follow-up also on the wholesale question asked earlier for Optus. I'd been under the impression that a lot of the wholesale customers were prepaid. From the numbers that you've [already said], doesn't necessarily look the case. Are you able to give us a sense of the wholesale customers you're adding, roughly how many are postpaid?

And just lastly -- I'm sorry if I missed this earlier, but I just need to clarify again the commentary around the dividend policy with being reviewed every three years. Is that overall capital management, or is it just dividend policy that that was referring to? That's all.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I'll take the first question, the PLDT acquisition of Digitel, that's expected to complete by June.

Globe, it's not opposed to the deal per se but wants to make sure that the government intervenes, if necessary, to ensure level playing field where there is fair and healthy competition for the benefit of consumer market.

Globe has recently written to the NTC to express its preliminary views about the transaction, in particular [to alter that] if the transaction goes ahead PLDT will be controlling approximately 70% of the mobile market, and a disproportionate share of the frequency spectrum.

The [fair] competition is therefore available and NTC should intervene and closely examine the deal. The existing spectrum, the financial (inaudible) is that because with a new deal where PLDT acquired Digitel, they will have about 35 megahertz of 3G spectrum, as opposed to Globe having 10 meg. As you know, spectrum is critical for the mobile market.

JEANN LOW: Okay, on the -- you asked a question about the statement we have made on the capital management, or the reviewing on a three-year basis, our cash needs for operations and growth initiatives. That's as explicit as we can be. Basically, we are telling our shareholders that we will do a review on at least a three-year basis. And clearly, we are looking towards our shareholders [in] -- long-term shareholders.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: It's Paul here, I'm going to ask Murray just to come back on the wholesale issue again, Alice, and we'll just try and clarify how we disclose our wholesale, and make sure that people get a good sense as to what we're actually putting in the numbers.

MURRAY KING: I think what a number of the analysts are doing is taking on the face of our MD&A, the fact that we're disclosing whole percentages for our -- wholesale basis percentage of our overall base. And if you look at December '10, we said 10% of the base and as a margin 11% -- we said 11% of the base. And if you just use those whole percentage numbers, you end up with indications the wholesale base increased by about [100,000].

I can assure you there's a rounding element to that, so as you can understand, you can either round down or round up, and the differential, as a consequence of rounding, can be as low as [0.2%]. We don't actually disclose our total wholesale base.

And in relation to your question about the pre to post split, again, we don't provide disclosures on that. But as you can see in the retail market, we have wholesale service providers that provide both postpaid services, prepaid services and wireless Broadband services.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: And it's important to stress that our mobile portfolio is broadly based, so the numbers represent contributions from across the portfolio.

ALICE BENNETT: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: (inaudible), Goldman Sachs.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Got a question for Allen. How does the profitability of the fiber products in Singapore compare to the DSL products so far?

ALLEN LEW: I think you need to look at overall from end to end. The DSL [Internet] runs off our copper network, and we have to invest in the copper.

In the case of fiber, I think we don't -- we pay a rent for the fiber service, just like any other ISP, where we don't have to make the cash investment in fiber, that's done by the government. So I think if you look at it from a pure OpEx perspective, you probably have to pay -- [I have] a lower EBITDA margin, but if you look on the return on capital invested basis, and bear in mind that you know with fiber you've got a lot of ability to up-sell other services; they are less capital intensive.

You can look it from a [IRR] basis, that the potential for us to get a higher return from fiber is a lot more than from DSL. So that's the perspective we take on fiber. For us, fiber is the future. It fits in well with our strategic growth. And also from a return on capital perspective, we will continue to push it to make sure we get a better return than we do on DSL.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Great, thanks. Just a follow-up question just on the mobiles market in Singapore. Can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing in terms of the competitive environment? Are you seeing a pull-back from StarHub and maybe just a bit more aggression from M1 there?

ALLEN LEW: The mobile market sort of ebbs and flows in terms of competitive intensity. I would say the prepaid market is probably the most aggressive right now. That's primarily because of -- it's a lot foreign people coming into Singapore and that's an area of growth.

So I think that's an area where you can see a lot of price competition. And that would gauge the M1 is probably, the most aggressive per minute pricing, the free IDD that they put there.

I think the postpaid market is now moving very much more towards value. And you can see that when all the operators start to say that [18%], or in excess of 18%, in some case, of new adds and re-contracts are onto smartphones, it's a question less of how much is subsidizing the smartphone, but more a question the quality of your mobile data network, and I spoke about that little bit earlier, and the sort of applications and content they can put there.

So it's less a price game, and it's more value and branding game and ability to create a bit of excitement, in the case of consumer customers. And in the case of business customers, the ability to help them manage getting email and some of the business applications onto these smart devices.

So I think in that case, I don't think M1 has got the ability to compete as aggressively with -- from a branding, from applications or content perspective, with ourselves and with StarHub.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Ian Martin, RBS.

IAN MARTIN, ANALYST, RBS: Two questions if you wouldn't mind. One of the real drags on SingTel in the past has been the -- in the past couple of years has been the associates' performance. And you seem to be suggesting that you think that's improving. You're talking about strengthening operating performance, improving productivity and so on.

I just wonder how confident you are about that, particularly you've given, despite that, only an expectation of flat dividends. I know there's a lag effect there, but shouldn't it be -- if the operating performance is improving, shouldn't there be an expectation of improving dividends, particularly when you factor in, perhaps, some currency expectation as well.

And secondly, a question for Paul O'Sullivan, Paul, you've touched on that question of capital spending in Mobile, I think in relation to a mobile termination question. There's a wide industry expectation of traffic levels doubling every year for the next five years, with what's going on. Very difficult thing to manage the capacity against that kind of traffic growth on a geographic basis. I just wonder how you are set for that, whether there's some risks there, and how you see that Optus is able to expand the capacity as needed over the next three to five years.

JEANN LOW: Okay, on the guidance, well the associates' dividends and -- that we are highlighting that is stable. I think, yes, there is a bit of a lag effect, but I think if you look at the -- our associates' dividend policies, with Globe they have a policy of about 75% to 90% of their previous year's net profit -- preceding year's net profit, in terms of payout. So for FY 2010, they have said that they will pay out about 84% of the FY 2010 income.

For AIS, I think AIS has already announced, in November last year, that they have a revised dividend policy to pay dividend of at least 100% of net profit, and that dividend will be paid twice a year. And of course, for Telkomsel, they don't have a fixed dividend policy, but historically, they pay somewhere between 70% to 80%.

Bharti, only just paid -- we have made a dividend of [INR0.01] per share. And of course you know the way we look at Bharti is that, whatever dividends that may be available from the Indian operation will be reinvested towards growth, towards our funding growth, particularly with the leverage that they have taken up on Africa. So that's the storyline around the dividend policy.

In terms of talking about growth for the associates, yes the associates are markets that have given us significant growth in the past; and clearly we have increased penetration; and we've increased competition. There's some slowing down of the growth and it's not been helped by the currency factor.

But we continue to believe that the investments that we have in those countries have got growth potential, continue to have growth potential, particularly in the major markets of Indonesia and Africa, Indonesia and India, where 3G and mobile broadband is currently being rolled out.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN: So Ian I'll pick up on your question, it's Paul here, on the traffic in Australia. And we absolutely share your view that there will be very aggressive growth in mobile data. On the positive side it reflects the very strong value proposition that smartphones, that tablets and that mobile Internet provides.

One of the key issues that I'll point out to everybody is that in contrast to our smaller competitors in the industry, we have been investing very aggressively over the last few years because we had an expectation of strong growth, albeit what we're seeing is probably at the upper end of what we would have expected. And that's left us in better position in terms of moving forward and taking advantage of the growth.

I'd point at three areas in particular. The first one is our acquisition spectrum. In the metro areas we've more than doubled our spectrum holdings last year by buying Qualcomm's spare 2100 spectrum. But we were also the first carrier to lodge applications for over 1,000 apparatus or local licenses in regional Australia, and we were successful in acquiring those.

We've only rolled out that additional spectrum so far to less than 20% of the network, if a program is still underway and as it rolls out it will give a significant extra radio capacity in all of the sales where we deploy it.

The second big area of focus for us has been backhaul, and we've upgraded a lot of our sites from an average three years ago of about one E1 per site, to today having over 80% of our metro network on fiber. And there's an ongoing program to upgrade our capacity. That gives us significant capacity on backhaul and allows us to be ready to take advantage of strong growth.

The third area is metro build, and what's interesting for someone like me who's been in mobile for over a decade, is that we had, by and large, stopped any major build in metro up to about three years ago. But anticipating the growth and demand, and the greater usage of devices for data, we have recommenced a metro build; in fact the first wave of our new metro sites has come on-stream over the last six to nine months, but there are further waves coming on over the next one or two.

There's a big contrast between the strategy I've described and that of some of the other players, one in particular, in the industry. I would say it's still going to be an area which requires a lot of focus, and represents a lot of challenge for the industry. But there's no doubt that our very strong investment, over SGD2 billion in mobile over the last four years, has given us a good platform from which to start.

IAN MARTIN: Thanks Paul. Thank you.

YANG FONG: Operator, do we have any more questions?

OPERATOR: At this point, no ma'am.

YANG FONG: Okay, so we will just stop the call here and for callers who still have questions, we have your names, we will contact you soon. And a transcript of today's call will be posted onto our website by end of tomorrow. We thank you for your interest, and should you have further questions please don't hesitate to contact the IR team in Singapore or in Sidney.

On behalf of everyone in SingTel, thank you and goodbye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call. Thank you all for attending. Goodbye.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
telas : Singapore Telecommunications Limited | applc : Apple Inc | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i7902101 : Local Telephone Services | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | i79021 : Wired Telecommunications Services | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
singp : Singapore | usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110530e75b001p5
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Zagg Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,350 words
   PD
10 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Greetings and welcome to the ZAGG's first-quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Kim Rogers-Carrete with Genesis Select. Thank you, Ms. Rogers-Carrete. You may now begin.

KIM ROGERS-CARRETE, IR, GENESIS SELECT CORP: Thank you, Operator. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining the ZAGG, Inc. first quarter 2011 conference call. On the call today from the Company are Robert G. Pedersen II, President, Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer; and ZAGG's Chief Financial Officer, Brandon O'Brien.

By now, everyone should have access to the first-quarter 2011 earnings release. And if you've not received a copy of the release, it can be found on the Investor Relations portion of the ZAGG website under the Investor Relations tab. This call is being webcast and a replay will be available on the Company's website through midnight August 11, 2011.

Before we begin, we'd like to remind to everyone that the prepared remarks contain certain forward-looking statements, and that management may make additional forward-looking statements in response to your questions. These statements include, but are not limited to, our outlook for the Company, and statements that estimate or project future results of operations or the performance of the Company. These statements do not guarantee future performance and speak only as of the date hereof. We refer all of you to the risk factors contained in ZAGG's annual report on Form 10-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a more detailed discussion on the factors that can cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. ZAGG assumes no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements that may be made on today's release or call.

Please note that on today's call, in addition to discussing the GAAP financial results and the outlook for the Company, the following non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed -- EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. An explanation of ZAGG's use of these non-GAAP financial measures in this call, and the reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures required by SEC Regulation G, is included in ZAGG's press release today which, again, can be found on the Investor Relations section of the Company's website. The non-GAAP information is not a substitute for any performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and the use of such non-GAAP measures has limitations, which are detailed in the Company's press release.

And with that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Robert Pedersen, ZAGG's Chairman and CEO. Robert?

ROBERT PEDERSEN, CO-FOUNDER, PRESIDENT, CEO AND CHAIRMAN, ZAGG, INC.: Thank you, Kim. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in our first quarter 2011 conference call. We are very pleased to report the highest first-quarter record revenue and earnings in ZAGG's history. This comes from a combination of many factors as we continue to execute on ZAGG's business plan. We set a new first-quarter record for invisibleSHIELD sales, and we're very pleased with the momentum for newest product, the ZAGGmate, and our expansion into keyboards and cases.

Revenue for the quarter was $27 million, and represents the largest year-over-year quarterly revenue growth we've ever generated. This tremendous increase of over 200% compared to Q1 last year was fueled primarily by robust demand for invisibleSHIELD and strong growth in ZAGGmate sales. We also start significant jump in gross margins in the quarter due primarily to higher-than-average direct sales coming from the ZAGG.com. Fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.13, a 333% increase from the previous year's first quarter, which is another record increase for ZAGG. Brandon will be providing further details on all the financial metrics later in the call.

Turning to the quarterly results on a macro level, we continue to see the effects of increasing smartphone penetration and tablet proliferation as the underlying driver of mobile device accessories sales. As we look ahead, this dynamic will play a significant role in the growth of our business, and we reaffirm our business strategy as we laid it out to you before.

5 points -- expand our indirect channels domestically and internationally; number 1, put more SKUs into this channel; number 3, introduce new value-added products; number 4, maintain direct sales on ZAGG.com of at least 15% of total sales; and number five, timing, have product in the channel on the day of release for new devices.

I would like to highlight a few accomplishments in the quarter illustrate how are executing on the strategy. We introduced the invisibleSHIELD smudge-proof, anti-glare film at CES in January of this year, and released it into all Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile stores. The invisibleSHIELD and ZAGGskins protection for the Apple iPhone 4 was made available to Verizon customer on date of release. The ZAGGmate, which was available for wider release in the quarter, won a CES Design and Engineering Award that was named winner of the Macworld Expo 2011 Best of Show.

We announced a distribution agreement with US Cellular, the sixth largest wireless company in the United States. We also announced, in the quarter, the availability of a complete line of accessories, including the invisibleSHIELD and ZAGGskins, which were available on the day of release for the new Apple iPad 2. And we introduced a new line of premium ZAGGskins designed to match and complement Apple iPad 2 device and complement the Smart Cover. We also announced the ZAGG sportLEATHER skins into AT&T, a company owned retail stores nationwide.

ZAGG will continue to expand its distribution. And today, we are pleased to announce that our invisibleSHIELD line is now available on shelf as of 2 days ago nationwide in Sprint stores. This is the nation's third-largest wireless carrier. We will be issuing a press release on this before the market opens tomorrow morning. We feel this is very exciting news.

With 76% of sales in the quarter coming from our indirect channel, we recognized the importance of building our brand strength in delivering unique products into this channel. In recent highly regarded industry research report, ZAGG was cited as the leading US brand in the mobile device accessories category of cases and protection, with 3 of the top 5 selling SKUs. This is a report used extensively by retailers to understand the consumer's demand for their mobile device and accessories needs, and identify opportunities to grow these profit centers in the stores.

We have laid the groundwork necessary to maintain our competitive advantage, brand recognition and distribution around the line of value-added products to protect, support and enhance the smartphone and tablet experience. Essentially, that's our mission statement. We will maintain our market leadership position by executing on our business strategy in examining new strategic opportunities as they present themselves.

I would like to cover 3 important subjects as they relate to the better understanding of our company -- number 1, competition; number 2, market opportunity; and number 3, strategic initiative.

Starting with competition. Here's some investor views surrounding ZAGG's competitive vulnerability. I'd like to take this opportunity to address these concerns, which I breakdown into the following 3 subjects -- 1, other film competitors to the invisibleSHIELD; 2, scratch-resistant glass; and 3, case screen protection offerings from the device manufacturers themselves.

Traditional screen protectors made in Asia have been around since mobile devices have been available. ZAGG was the first to market with a technical clear film to wrap devices and establish this whole full product category. There's some companies offering film protection, making similar claims on mind, but they are not identical, and none of them have been able to enter the retail channel in a meaningful way.

There are reasons for this. The invisibleSHIELD and ZAGG brand of product lines continue to dominate on the pegs at our retail partners in these specific categories because ZAGG provides 1, -- the premium trusted brand, which represents the best quality of products available, and the highest level of customer support, and with a lifetime guarantee; number 2, an in-house sales team and training and support program; number 3, ZAGG has the ability to meet [restore] stringent demands for timely delivering and restocking.

We understand both the importance of building a brand and protecting our intellectual property. Today, we are pleased to make another announcement. We have received notification from the US Patent and Trademark Office that our original patent we applied for over 5 years ago around the idea of wrapping mobile devices in a clear film has finally received a notice of allowance. This gives ZAGG further domestic intellectual property protection around the invisibleSHIELD to defend us from imitators, and inferior products. This patent will supplement our 2 earlier issued patents around the installation kits in our packages. We are in the process of defending our patents with several infringing competitors, and we intend to continue to enforce our intellectual property rights.

To the second issue, scratch-resistant glass. Most smaller devices shipping today have touchscreen that are manufactured by either Corning or Asahi Glass. It is the industry understanding that manufactures have been using scratch-resistant glass-[related] devices since early 2008. ZAGG has seen their revenues expand during this period from $5.1 million at the end of 2007 to over $76 million last year in 2010 with this revenue coming primarily from the invisibleSHIELD sales.

The proliferation of the scratch-resistant glass since 2007 has not impeded the acceptance of our products. And we do not see that changing in the foreseeable future. Glass still scratches, customers still want that extra protection, and there are other benefits now with anti-smudge and anti-fingerprint, as well as anti-glare qualities that make our offerings very viable.

Lastly. Recently, we saw an unwarranted impact on our stock price, when a new case cover product was introduced alongside the Apple iPad 2 by Apple. The sell-off in our stock price on this product announcement was not just due to the concern that this would potentially hurt sales of invisibleSHIELD but due to conjecture that this one product alone would destroy ZAGG's entire business model. And to a certain extent, this fallacy is still evident on the sidelines.

As it turns out, sales of our products for the iPad 2 have exceeded even our projections. The invisibleSHIELD for the iPad 2 is nicely compatible with the cover. Most scratches occur when the screen is being used. And in the case of Apple's cover, the back of the iPad 2 remains exposed, creating a real need for a customized ZAGGskin, LEATHERskin, and invisibleSHIELD.

Our ZAGGmate has a keyboard. As a point of comparison, when the iPad 2 was released, initial orders for the invisibleSHIELD for the first 30 days were 40% higher than on the same first 30-day introduction for the iPad 1, 40% higher. And the sell-through since then has been very strong.

We work well with Apple consumers, and we think these numbers illustrate how consumers are actively looking for full body protection and related options for their expensive tablet computers. We offer products that are unique and our distribution channels are expanding.

What is important for investors to take away from these points is that ZAGG's long-term success is tied to the ongoing proliferation of mobile devices. Our ability to offer differentiated products and maximize their distributions. As these markets grow and our new popular products come to market, our addressable market is growing with it. Even a relatively small attach rate in a market forecast has shipped hundreds of millions of devices is very meaningful to a company like ours. And we are well-positioned to capture market share.

The market will remain competitive with a lot of product offerings, but we will strive to keep ahead of the curve with innovation. We'll continue to build our brand, and consumers worldwide are quickly recognizing ZAGG, as the premium accessories brand for mobile devices.

The majority of products we currently ship are for smartphones and tablets. And for the first time in Q1 2011, we saw that more than half of all new mobile phone handsets purchased in the US were smartphones, according to a recent MPD report. It's estimated that 1 billion mobile devices, such as tablets and smart phones, are expected to be shipped by 2014.

We offer products for all configurations of these devices and leading big-box retailers, consumer electronics stores and mobile phone stores, as well as on our website, net kiosk locations across the country.

We are benefiting directly from the rise of tablet sales as our products for these devices sell a higher price point than our handsets offerings. The global growth of mobile devices is key to our future viability and continued success, and we are preparing for just that.

Today, thanks to 2 recent initiatives, ZAGG is better poised than ever to benefit from these global trends. The first is our recently announced partnership in the manufacturing logistics headquarters in Shannon, Ireland to grow our international customer base. This facility creates around 300 jobs, primarily by our Irish logistics company. The capacity to provide products the day of launch and restock in a timely manner is key to our ability to broaden these relationships and grow our international sales over time. The fulfillment center was fully online as of April and is designed to be able to scale to meet our needs as we grow.

Our second important global initiative is the recently announced master distribution licensing in agreement with Logitech for the ZAGGmate, our tablet computer accessory in which Logitech will manufacture and distribute the ZAGGmate case with keyboards starting with the iPad 2 to their worldwide distribution channel under the name Logitech Keyboard Case by ZAGG.

This new relationship allows us to dramatically expand our global market presence and leverage their international manufacturing expertise in keyboards. Since keyboard configurations vary by country, the Logitech licensing program permits us to provide a larger range of products to the global market. The agreement will cut the expenses and risk related to manufacturing and distributing the ZAGGmate, which is very beneficial to our margins over the long run.

In exchange, we'll receive a royalty payment and retain the right to sell the ZAGGmate on our website. ZAGG will record the revenue from these indirect sales at the time of shipment from Logitech. At CES this year, Logitech saw the innovation of our ZAGGmate design we had created and our IP protection around it and decided they want to partner with us on this product line.

I'd like to take a minute to talk about our online sales in the quarter. Online sales grew to 24% of revenues. This increase was primarily due to the ZAGGmate sales. The level of Internet traffic remains strong throughout the quarter in part as a result of our social networking presence, the iPad giveaway program and targeted online advertising. Online sales continue to remain strong today.

In summary, this has been another excellent quarter for ZAGG with record first-quarter top and bottom-line results. I attribute this achievement the successful execution on all of our business strategy points and to the dedication of my hardworking and amazing team here at ZAGG.

With that, I like to turn the call over to Brandon for a detailed review of the financials and our updated guidance for 2011. Brandon?

BRANDON O'BRIEN, CFO, ZAGG, INC.: Thank you, Robert, and thanks again to everyone for joining us on the call today. As stated in today's release, we will be disclosing consolidated financial results reflecting our main business unit, ZAGG, Inc., and the results of our subsidiaries, ZAGG Europe, ZAGG International, and HzO.

In the call today, I will speak only to consolidated results unless otherwise stated. The financial statements filed with the SEC and provided in today's release reflects Q1 financial details for our subsidiaries as well as consolidated results, so you may refer to them for further clarifications. The quarter I am referring to for the purposes of today's call is Q1 2011.

Consolidated revenues for the quarter were $27 million versus $8.8 million in the first quarter for 2010 and $29.3 million in the previous quarter. Consolidated gross profit for the quarter was $13.6 million versus $4.9 million in Q1 2010 and $13.4 million from the previous quarter, which translates in the gross margins for the quarter of 51% versus 56% for Q1 2010 and 46% in the previous quarter. Gross margins for the quarter came in above our guidance due to the overall strong sales of the ZAGGmate on our website.

Consolidated operating income in the quarter was $4.9 million versus $1.3 million in the same period last year and the previous quarter of $6.1 million. Operating margins for the quarter were 18.0% versus 15.2% for the same quarter last year and 20.9% in the previous quarter.

There were some key factors that had a negative impact on operating margins for the first quarter that I'd like to address. Advertising and marketing represented 9.3% of revenues for the quarter. By comparison, advertising and marketing was only 5.2% of revenues for the fourth quarter. We spent [above] plans during the first quarter as we were striving to build brand recognition with our ZAGGmate product.

We also incurred higher-than-planned expenses for legal and accounting due to legal expenses related to the completion of the Logitech agreement, legal cost associated with defending our ZAGG patents, and costs incurred, as result of the change of our auditors, net of our atypical advertising and marketing spend, and our usually high in legal and accounting expenses in the quarter, our operating margins were in line with our guidance.

Consolidated net income attributable to stockholders in the first quarter came in at $3.3 million versus $800,000 in the first quarter last year and $3.4 million in the previous quarter. Our fully diluted share count for the quarter was 26.2 million shares, and fully diluted consolidated earnings per share were $0.13 versus $0.03 in the same period last year and $0.13 in the previous quarter.

Consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the quarter came in at $5.4 million or $0.21 per share. That compares to adjusted EBITDA of $1.6 million and $0.07 per share for the first quarter 2010 and $6.6 million or $0.27 per share from the previous quarter.

Turning to the balance sheet, working capital at the end of the quarter was $24.3 million compared to working capital of $23.6 million on December 31, 2010. We continue to have no long-term debt as of the end of the quarter and have drawn [beyond] $4.1 million against our $20-million line of credit with US Bank for working capital purposes during the quarter, particularly related to funding on the ZAGGmate product line. We feel that the US Bank lines will be more than sufficient to provide for our present working capital needs. We are not contemplating an equity raise at this time.

Accounts receivable for the quarter were $16.2 million with over 75% of the receivables due from Fortune 500 companies. We are very comfortable with the credit worthiness of these customers and have every reason to believe we will receive full payment from them as we have in the past. We remain on extremely good terms with our largest channel partners.

Accounts receivable decreased in the quarter by $1.5 million compared to the prior quarter with a balance of $17.7 million. As a percentage of the trailing 12-month revenue of $94.4 million, our accounts receivable decreased to 17% of revenue from 23% in the previous quarter.

Inventories for the quarter were $21.2 million, an increase of $3.2 million from the previous quarter, due primarily to the timing of the delivery of raw materials in the form of rolls of films from our US manufacturer and packaging materials installation components that were used to compile invisibleSHIELD finished goods over the course of the year on an [asking] basis.

We have long lead times on many of these raw material components, and inventory received in the quarter had been committed to during 2010. 59% of our inventory is in the form of raw materials. These inventory levels gave us comfort about our ability to meet projected demand for our products from our customers, including the frequent upside request we received from our customers. We needed to make sure that we had the proper inventory levels as we brought on new customers like the recently announced Sprint customer. We anticipate the balance of inventories to decline over the next 2 quarters as we were to optimize the amount of inventory to carry in our warehouses.

Our DSOs in the quarter remains relatively consistent with the prior quarter at [54.1] compared to [54.4] from the previous quarter. We were a net user of cash in the quarter, putting our cash balance at the end of the quarter at $1.8 million. Again, we feel confident that we'll begin to rebuild our cash position as we progress through 2011. Our calculation of fully diluted shares for the quarter was [26,215,190] (Sic - see press release) shares versus 25,769,060 shares in the prior quarter.

In accordance with our 55% interest in HzO, we have consolidated the results of HzO into our financial statements. For the quarter, HzO posted a loss of $178,000, 55% of which is reflected in ZAGG's net income. HzO is in the process of a capital raise to be used to commercialize the technology. We are on track to close the race in the first half 2011. HzO product development continues to move forward with the expectation to monetize the technology before year end.

We are excited about our operations at ZAGG International in Ireland which went online in early April. Based on operations in Ireland, we will be quicker to market for our European customers, and we will be able to take advantage of the lower tax rates in Ireland. We did incur expenses related to the establishment of our operations in Ireland during the first quarter that we expect to be one-time charges.

Looking at the ZAGG sales mix, the fourth quarter, again, showed an increase from the direct channel as Internet sales were strong for the ZAGGmate, which benefited from the Oprah effect from the device that's featured on her show, February 4.

Mall kiosks showed seasonality in the quarter but benefited from the release of the iPad 2, as many of the kiosks are located outside or near Apple stores. Stand-alone stores are also included with the mall kiosks numbers but also did well in the quarter as a result of their strategic placement in malls. Again, our largest contribution to revenues came from the indirect segment.

The break in of sales for the quarter is as follows -- 70% of sales were from the indirect or wholesale channel; 22% came from the website; 6% to the mall kiosk programs; and 2% from shipping and handling; a further consolidation would put the indirect at 76% and the website at 24%.

As we have stated before, the indirect channel will continue to be the primary distribution channel for the ZAGG product line. Our long-term goal remains building distribution, and eventually putting more ZAGG brand of products into that channel.

As noted in the press release that went out this afternoon, we have increased our guidance for 2011 to raise our revenue range to $100 million to $110 million from $95 million to $100 million. We expect gross margin percentage for the year to be in the mid to upper [40s], and we are tightening our range on operating margins to 21% to 23% from 19% to 21%.

There is still some uncertainty as to the impact on overall growth and operating margins from our relationship with Logitech. Once we have better visibility, we can adjust our margin and revenue forecasts accordingly.

We will be revisiting guidance again on the next quarterly call. The guidance we provide is based on our outlook for demand for our products, primarily the invisibleSHIELD and the ZAGGmate, our announced distribution agreements, increased contribution from Europe as a function of our new distribution facility, and the ongoing growth of mobile device sales, the introduction of new ZAGG products, the announcement of new retail channel partners, as well as any contributions from HzO or ZAGGbox are not included in this outlook.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Robert.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Operator, I'd like to turn the call over to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). One moment, please while we pool for questions.

Mike Malouf, Craig-Hallum Capital Group.

MIKE MALOUF, ANALYST, CRAIG-HALLUM CAPITAL GROUP: Great. Thanks, guys, and spectacular quarter on the topline. Just really impressive. And also congratulations on Sprint. It's always great to hear. I had a question. Maybe you can just help because I get a lot of questions about this -- about some rough estimates about how much your business is tied to the Apple products. And then secondarily, how much of your business in this quarter was tied to tablets?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Yes. Great questions, Mike. Apple is -- and they're a great company. They put out a lot of products, and we're happy to have the ability to provide our products to fit onto the Apple products. And so they're always going to be high on the list as far as companies that we -- our top sellers for.

So that being said, I mean, you can look at it from a month-to-month basis. And whatever the type top swing devices are out in the industry that would mirror what our top-selling SKUs are. So Apple always is a big contributor, but we're a diverse company and have the ability to have products for all of any devices that's out there.

As far as tablets go, I mean tablets have been great for us. I mean the Apple iPad has really blazed the trail with the success they've been having, and we have been able to ride along with that [laid] and enjoy the same type of success you're seeing on the industry. As far as the market acceptance of that product, we're just working to get a bigger attach rate with our invisibleSHIELD product lines. And we feel like we're poised very well to take advantage of not only the Apple iPads but all of the other tablet computers as they come online.

MIKE MALOUF: So any comments on the percentage of those 2 categories?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Yes. For competitive purposes, we don't break that down specifically on percentages. I mean we're seeing a bigger mix that's coming from the tablet market as the whole market is starting to gain more traction. So if you compare last year to this year, higher percentages coming from the tablet market. But we're still a majorly -- handheld cell phones is still the majority of our business.

MIKE MALOUF: Okay, great. And then as far as the Logitech agreement, I know that you had -- obviously, we have the Logitech case, which is obviously the old ZAGGmate out in the market right now. Are you still selling the old iPad 1 case? And if so, if that plan is to run down the inventory of that and then switch over to the iPad 2?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Yes, We continue to sell the ZAGGmate for the iPad 1, and Logitech is not selling that -- distributing that. And so, we're selling on our website and continue to sell that through our distribution channels. But we see tailing off but we didn't build-up a huge inventory of iPad -- of the ZAGGmate for the iPad 1. We're very just being able to meet demand on that because the demand was so strong. And so, we'll continue to sell that and sell that through. But as of right now, the focus is on the iPad 2. And then we've already started preparing for the Zoom and other tablet computers coming out for the ZAGGmate and other versions.

MIKE MALOUF: Great. And then when would Logitech likely use or expand the agreement with yourselves with regards to distributing other products that you have worldwide?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: That definitely is a part of the bigger picture in the plan that Logitech will distribute ZAGG products worldwide, and they definitely have the distribution worldwide opportunity to be able to do that, and they're excited about that. So we're just laying that out and planning that out for the summer.

MIKE MALOUF: Okay. And then one little housekeeping question. As far as the tax rate goes, it was a little bit lower this quarter than it has been in the past. Did that have something to do with the Ireland, or basically European or the Ireland division? Or was there something else going on there?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: No. That was primarily driven from the Irish operations. And with that, anytime you're in that provision, you're trying to estimate where you're going to be the end of the year. And so based off of our projections and estimations, that's what pushed that tax rate down to mid-[30s].

MIKE MALOUF: So we should expect that rate going forward from here?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Yes.

MIKE MALOUF: Great. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Mike Latimore, Northland Capital.

MIKE LATIMORE, ANALYST, NORTHLAND CAPITAL: Great, great. Hi, Robert and Brandon. Great quarter.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Thanks, Mike.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Thanks, Mike.

MIKE LATIMORE: The Sprint deal -- that's interesting. How many SKUs should we expect in any [these] products? I may have missed this earlier but just a little bit more elaboration on Sprint would be great.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: It's not uncommon or unlike the other introductions when we went into AT&T or even when we went into Best Buy. We went into Best Buy at 3 SKUs, AT&T with 1 SKU. This is 1 SKU going in, and it's all of the corporate stores, 1600 stores, we went in 2 days ago. And so you should be able to find on the shelves. And the press release that goes out tomorrow will be very generic. But it definitely is going to grow quickly from there.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: The exciting part about that, Mike, is that it really gives us the ability to tablet the -- or to tackle the Android handset market. I mean Sprint is a big seller of the Android products, and we're excited about the ability to provide products right at the point of purchase from people buying those phones to have it right in the Sprint store, so we're very excited about that opportunity.

MIKE LATIMORE: Great, great. So when you say build it from there, you mean additional SKUs over time?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Yes, exactly. Absolutely. And we're starting with the Samsung Nexus S 4 G. That's the SKU that we'd start with, and they sell a lot of those. We, in fact, in the first day that it was out, we filled over 1000 shelves at first day, and we'll go from there.

MIKE LATIMORE: Got it. And when you think about other tablets coming out and making ZAGGmate products for them, is your thought you would manufacture those initially as well?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Well, we're already manufacturing. We have been. Logitech is taking that over. We're transitioning that, and they'll be able to use all of their manufactures and have the ability to do all different keyboards. I mean when you think about it, if you have 10 different kinds of keyboards for 10 different devices, that's 100 SKUs. And for us to manage that would be very expensive and very complicated. So they're taking all of that over.

MIKE LATIMORE: And I guess today my thought was if you come out with other keyboard cases for other types of tablets aside with the iPad, would you manufacture those? Or would that be somebody else manufacturing it?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: No. Logitech will take over all of that area.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Yes, that's the whole idea of the partnership but it's part of it is that they will take over all that. So all of the expenses related to that, everything to do with distributing that, manufacturing that, that's all of Logitech's. And then we just -- we'd sell it on our website, like we did before, whatever the offering is, whatever product is available.

MIKE LATIMORE: And then this is probably on your 10-Q, but any distributors besides Best Buy that were over 10% revenue?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Yes. There was one other that was over 10%, and that was Target for the quarter.

MIKE LATIMORE: Great, great. Thanks a lot. Great quarter.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Thanks, Mike.

OPERATOR: David Griffith, ROTH Capital Partners.

DAVID GRIFFITH, ANALYST, ROTH CAPITAL PARTNERS: Hey, good afternoon. Sounds like there were several unusual things, both in the advertising and marketing and in the SG&A line. And based on your guidance, that would imply that those numbers will come down in the remaining quarters. Can you give us a direction on where that's going and maybe also address a little bit more of what's the extra advertising and marketing spend was?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: You bet. I mean the majority of our advertising and marketing spend is online. So it's Google keywords, I mean, it's banner ads. So to the extent that we see a positive return for our dollars spent on the website, we'll continue to spend those. And so, we'll allow that to go over budget if we see that we're getting a return on that.

That's what happened during this quarter. It was primarily related to the ZAGGmate, so it's a much higher priced point item. So we gave our guidance a little more latitude on how much we'll allow them to spend for a cost of acquisition on the customers. So we felt that was imperative for us to really do that and build the brand out of the gate.

On a perspective basis, we think that that can come down. But if we have another product that we see the same kind of dynamic, we'll do that again. We'll continue to spend as long as we see positive results coming back from the dollars that we're spending.

DAVID GRIFFITH: Got you. So it sounds like it's going to be a variable, depending on what you're seeing coming through. I assume predominantly through your own website in terms of the ZAGGmate.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Yes. It will be exclusively through our website.

DAVID GRIFFITH: And then on the SG&A side, what trend -- baseline should we look for?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: We had some higher-than-usual expenses that we discussed more detail in [MDA] in the queue. I can touch on some of those. As I referred to my comments, we had some higher-than-anticipated legal and accounting expenses. We had some expenses that we're -- we had higher commission expenses also that would be driven from the ZAGGmate sales. And so, we had some affiliates that really took advantage of the advertising we were doing online, sold more products through their website. And so those costs were a little more variable. But we would anticipate that the legal and accounting expense would normalize back to planned for the remainder of the year for us.

DAVID GRIFFITH: All right. And then -- I haven't gotten a chance really to go through the queue yet in detail, but it looks like invisibleSHIELD is about 77% of sales versus typically it's been over 90%. Is ZAGGmate the big addition to that non-invisibleSHIELD piece?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Yes. It is. I mean so we only had it for essentially 1 month and that 1 month was even a limited distribution last year. So this a real quarter, the real first time, the first quarter you could see the sales of the ZAGGmate. And it was received very well, so that was the -- that can't give us the diversity in the sales for the quarter.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: And what we're finding also is some of our product lines like our LEATHERskins, our ZAGGskins, sparq, our audio lines, they all are contributing to that. And so lots of little pieces that are adding up; they continue to grow on their side. So even if they don't grow as a percentage, they're certainly growing as the Company continues to grow. Year over year, over 200% revenue in over 300% on our earnings. So these are all areas that also continue to grow.

DAVID GRIFFITH: Okay. And then lastly, could you maybe touch a little bit more on Target. It seems like you're getting better penetration there and sell-throughs, what's the opportunity to actually put more SKUs in there?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Target is a great account for us. They, I think, are doing a fantastic job right now, as far as being able to target their -- no pun intended -- their demographic. They're mostly focused on women and more teenagers. I think we have a great relationship there. And they are asking us for certain products, and some of which, we are developing, and some of which, we will develop. And they'd see us as a real viable partner, going into the future. And so that's a great relationship.

But you also have relationship like RadioShack that in the past have been somewhat stagnant, maybe but it's really taking off. We have already done more in RadioShack in the first 3 months of this year than we did all of last year.

So you have some accounts right now that are really starting to see the vision and taking off. They carry more and more of our product lines, and our assortment, and they're seeing ZAGG as the premium accessories retailer category to be able to bring in a whole category. And we have a whole planogram that we work with them and bringing more products. It's working well.

DAVID GRIFFITH: And then with Sprint, I mean, if you're starting with 1 SKU, obviously there's some risk that it's a SKU that either doesn't work, or hopefully in your case, it leads to the next top SKU, presumably in the end right market, as you mentioned them. Is their provision for that with them? Or is it just getting in there now to get your foot in the door basically?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Well, that's how they all start. And we know what happens, they also just continue to grow and the products will speak for themselves. The consumers will be the -- wanted to vote. And if they like the product, then they'll continue to foster it. And what it will come down to many times is the sales people within stores, and how the training works, and how they adopt the Company, and adopt the product line. And so I think based on initial indications, they're very excited about carrying it. They've been wanting to carry our product lines for a long, long time. And finally, the buyers saying, let's go. And so here we go.

DAVID GRIFFITH: And hopefully it speaks to acceptance of the handset itself as well. So that was more of what I was getting at.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Yes, you're right. It is. And as Brandon said, I mean, we're excited about this because where millions and millions of these Android phones are sold throughout the United States, we [haven't] been in Sprint and T-Mobile, and some of these areas were most of the devices that are being sold. And so now we can start to attack that whole area.

DAVID GRIFFITH: Yes, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt Spratford, Sidoti & Company.

MATT SPRATFORD, ANALYST, SIDOTI & COMPANY: Hey, guys. How are you doing?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Hey, Matt.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: We're good, Matt.

MATT SPRATFORD: Just got a quick one for you. Everything else is purely for [adjust]. But I'm just curious if you could walk us through maybe the mechanics on that patent [$2 million] could be a pretty big deal long-term, would you be looking for a royalty? Or how would that work?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Good question. We're pretty excited about it, internally, to finally see that happening. And we thought we'd talked about it for a long, long time. And so we have the 2 patents that we acquired, and we're pursuing legal action on those. And certainly, we have our rights, so we're going to protect what we've done and we're the first to do what we did and what we're doing. And we're going to protect that.

Obviously, we're going to be vigilant about it -- about expenses. But you're right, it's exciting from our standpoint because it just gives us another leg. It gives us a whole -- another wall of defense. And it will help us even with the retailers, which is interesting because retailers, they don't want to mess with copycats or wannabes. They want to mess with the original. They want to mess with those that have patents because they can get it too, and they have legal liability. So it helps us all around.

MATT SPRATFORD: Seems like a big development. Just in terms -- I mean, do you expect any revenue impact? Or can you give us any update on where the legal proceedings are right now?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Yes, it's too soon to tell that. Certainly, we will have to make a decision like we are with our first 2 patents, and having to decide who do we settle with, or who do we -- do we get royalties, or do we just basically say, hey, we don't want you to do this anymore. And those are decisions that will still to be made.

MATT SPRATFORD: Got you. Thanks, guys. Congrats.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Thanks.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Thanks, Matt.

OPERATOR: Daniel Pike, who's private investor.

DANIEL PIKE, ANALYST, PRIVATE INVESTOR: Hey, Robert and Brandon. Congratulations.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Thanks, Dan.

DANIEL PIKE: Great job. I beg the question given the last 2 questions ago. If you're in Best Buy and now Target's going well, is Wal-Mart a place that you're trying to get into? Or is it not a price point that you'd be interested in, any comments on that front?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Wal-Mart is obviously huge, and they're very viable retailer. And we believe that we have a strategy to attack and be able to take advantage of Wal-Mart. We don't have anything to announce right now, but we think we have a good strategy to be able to penetrate that whole chain.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay, great. Any anecdotal feedbacks so far from Logitech on how the ZAGG made selling? It's doing well obviously in the Best Buy through -- in the city, but nationwide, I know that the new packaging just hit the shelves recently, have they told you how things are going so far?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: It's going great. It's just continuing very strong, both the retailers are increasing their orders. It's hard to tell how much of that is from it being in Logitech packaging with the -- by ZAGG on there, and so forth versus just the more interest in product the itself snowballing. So it's hard to tell but the sales are very strong, Dan.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay, great. As far as new products to come for ZAGG's future, can you give us [tr] and tell us what they are but what can you tell us any general area, or give us any handsets to what you guys are working on as far as what will be the next ZAGGmate to come?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: I love products. And as I think you know, I get very excited about what's in the pipeline and future, and looking to the future, and being able to figure out what's needed in solving problems, or needs for the future. Couple of areas just to give you a real small glimpse, Dan, is we plan to expand our whole power line. We believe that this is an area that has more opportunity and we have retailers that are requesting this. We had plan to expand the protection and the whole area of protecting tablets and the way that we protect devices.

We are expanding into ZAGGsafe. I don't know if you've noticed we have a beta on our website right now for program called ZAGGsafe. It's an extended warranty program. I will -- I'm not prepared to go into it at this time. But on our next call, we hope that we can report and let you know where we are. It's a very high-margin area and something that fits right in line with who we are and what we do. And we're expanding our audio. And so there a couple of other things that we're doing for competitive reasons I don't want to go into yet but those are the topline.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay. Brandon, at this point you have a better sense when Ireland is fully rolled out and your pushing sales internationally, what that will do to the tax rate, let's say, next year, how far it will come down?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: It's still early, Dan, because there's a lot of growth still to happen over there. I mean what we're seeing from this quarter and from our business for this year, I think, we'll have the tax rate down to the lower to mid-[30s], and we hope that to be able to take even more advantage of that with some tax strategies that we're implementing in the future. So we hope to have it better but it's still early to tell exactly where that will be.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay. And on the balance sheet side, I think, Brandon, the debt, the $4 million drawn down on the US Bank called [blind] primarily due to ZAGGmates. When will that flow back in or has that already flowed back in once you sold inventory, etcetera, this quarter?

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Yes. That's flowed back through. We see a lot -- it's just timing right now.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: We'll have -- when we get paid from some of our channel partners, we'll go through and we'll clear out any drawn down on the line and we'll build the cash balance. And then just depending on timing of inventory payment, again, most of it has been related to payments, deposits that have been putting down to keep the ZAGGmate coming up the line. And so once we fully transitioned that over to Logitech that will really free-up our working capital. And so again we're comfortable with the $20-million line being sufficient for our current working capital needs and don't see any need to go out to the capital markets.

DANIEL PIKE: So you got the $20-million line plus building cash, and it will allow you to do everything you want to do.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Yes. We believe it will.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay. Second and last question. I'm curious, how many e-mail addresses you now have of dedicated loyal customers who've given you their e-mail addresses, and said, yes, we want to see coupons from you or e-mails from you, etcetera, what that database up to?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Yes. It continues to grow and you get someone subscribe and things like that. But it's over 1 million, it's probably close to 1.3 million or 1.4 million now.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay. Have you thought about -- I mean, it's hard not to know what group [auto] is doing and travel is doing. These other people wants to have a dedicated following. You obviously -- people trust your devices. They like your products, etcetera. You could see it on Facebook, whatever. Have you thought about ways that you can utilize that database and monetize it going forward?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Yes. We are utilizing that database in different ways. We will send out targeted e-mails from time to time. And one of the reason our online sales is so strong is our online team is amazing, and they are utilizing that database and minding it, and certainly, there is room to grow but that is what we're always continually trying to do.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay. And last question was -- when is -- I couldn't find it in [tax ratings], where did you guys start with sales guidance last year, let's say, Q1 of last year, where did you begin the process?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: We gave guidance for 30% growth rate for the year.

DANIEL PIKE: For last year?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Yes.

DANIEL PIKE: Okay. All right. Well, good luck, and end of the show. Thanks so much guys. Great quarter.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Thanks, Dan.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Thanks, Dan.

DANIEL PIKE: Bye guys.

OPERATOR: Thank you. At this time, we will take one last question. Mike Latimore, Northland Capital.

MIKE LATIMORE: On your --

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Mike, are you there?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions).

ROBERT PEDERSEN: While Mike is trying to get back online, I actually just got a text message from my IT Director and he must be listening to the call, and he says we have over 2.1 million e-mail addresses now in our database.

OPERATOR: Mr. Lattimore, you our live.

MIKE LATIMORE: Great, thanks. Robert, just back on the RadioShack, can you elaborate a little bit with in [easy more] a little more optimistic about RadioShack, what do you see there? What's going on there?

ROBERT PEDERSEN: When we first got RadioShack, I was excited about it because they have 6000 stores, and a lot of presence there, and I'd hope that they'd be able to do installations. Anyway, they were pretty much the second retailer after Best Buy that we got. And so sales have been fairly lackluster until just recently.

Literally, it lasted 4 or 5 months. And they really had taken off and they adopted our product lines into their mix like the sparq for example. They're going to have the sparq in 2 different locations in their store. And they went through extensive testing on it and evaluation. I mean, they're pretty stringent and they've been selling it very, very well. In test scores and a couple of hundred stores has been doing well, so they're going to be rolling that out extensively. They finally caught the vision and the sales are just really starting to take off.

You see like Cricket, US Wireless, and US Cellular, and you see chains like these where they don't just take on the invisibleSHIELD or a few SKUs. But even though they're not as big, they make a significant impact because they'll take on multiple SKUs. They'll do more of what like Best Buy doesn't have whole section, 10-foot section of our products, and they really just -- they have an invisibleSHIELD for all their top devices. And they bring in our audio, they bring in our sparq, they bring in the ZAGGmate, they bring in cleaning products, and our LEATHERskins, and they'll start bringing in all kinds of -- an array of products. And it tells the story across the board, and they love it.

So that's more of what we're seeing right now. And I think this new report that we are listed as the top accessory provider in the United States right now has caught the attention of a lot of retailers. And those who called the caught the vision who were on board even, they saw that they're missing the boat. And so we've gotten a lot of attention from that in the last couple of months.

MIKE LATIMORE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. At this time, we have no further questions. I'd like to turn the call back over to the speakers for any closing comments.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Thank you, Operator, and thank you ZAGG shareholders and interested parties. I really also want to thank everyone on the ZAGG team for their continued effort and dedication and just excellent work on a day-to-day basis. Thanks for coming and participating in today's call and for your interest in ZAGG. We appreciate your support and we look forward to speaking with you again on the next quarterly conference call. Have a great day.

ROBERT PEDERSEN: Go ZAGG.

BRANDON O'BRIEN: Go ZAGG.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
amrkh : ZAGG Inc | applc : Apple Inc | tandie : RadioShack Corp | unitel : Sprint Nextel Corp.
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i648 : Household Goods/Hardware Stores | i6482 : Electronics/Appliance Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | i7902 : Telecommunications | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | ielec : Electronics | iretail : Retail
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | ire : Ireland | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110627e75a000bb
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Pc Mall Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,013 words
   PD
10 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First-Quarter 2011 PC Mall Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Melanie, and I will be your coordinator for today. All participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the prepared remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. On the call today are Frank Khulusi, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Brandon LaVerne, Chief Financial Officer; and Kris Rogers, Executive Vice President. At this time I would like to refer to the Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

During this conference call, management may discuss financial projections, information, or expectations about the Company's products or markets or otherwise make statements about the future, which statements are forward-looking and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made. These risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. I would now like to turn the call over to Frank Khulusi. Please proceed, sir.

FRANK KHULUSI, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PC MALL, INC.: Thank you, Melanie. Good afternoon. Welcome and thank you all for participating on this call with PC Mall. Today we will be discussing the Company's the financial results for the first quarter of 2011. I would like to show a few of our first-quarter highlights.

Net sales increased 16% to $335.9 million. Gross profit increased 14% to $43.5 million. GAAP operating profit increased 147% to $1.9 million, and non-GAAP operating profit increased 243% to $2.9 million. Adjusted EBITDA increased 77% to $5.6 million. Diluted earnings per share increased to $0.06 from $0.01, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for Q1 2011 increased to $0.11 from $0.02.

I am very pleased with our first-quarter performance. I would like to commend all of our employees for their continued contribution to our success, which is only possible through their hard work and dedication.

We grew our revenue 16% from the first quarter of last year. As our team continues to execute well in an environment characterized by stable growth and IT spending across most of our customer base. We saw particularly strong growth in our SMB, Mac Mall and MME segment which grew 28%, 18% and 15% respectively. While gross profit grew over 14%, year-over-year, operating profit grew by 147%, demonstrating significant operating leverage.

We achieved these results despite having a $0.5 million charge or 15 basis points of gross margin related to end-of-life Apple inventory. In addition in the first quarter, we made a significant investment of $0.5 million in the growth of our onSale segment which we are now separately reporting. Without these costs, on a non-GAAP basis, our operating profit would have been approximately $2.9 million for the quarter.

With respect to our onSale business, details about which are contained in a separate press release issued this afternoon, we believe the market we are preparing to enter is incredibly exciting, and represents a fantastic opportunity for us in the months and quarters to come. Now I would like to turn the call over to Brandon LaVerne, our CFO, who will present the financial results in a bit more detail.

BRANDON LAVERNE, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PC MALL, INC.: Please note that adjusted EBITDA non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures that look at operating profit exclusive of the results of our onSale segment, plus depreciation, amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation, and special charges if any. In Q1 2011, we did have a special charge related to an un-reimbursed write down of end-of-life first generation Apple iPads, upon the release of iPad 2.

Detailed information of better use of non-GAAP and a reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures are provided in the current report on Form 8-K filed today and available on our website.

I will now discuss our Q1 2011 segment results. All comparisons I make will be against Q1 2010, unless other wise noted. For our SMB, or small to medium size business segment, Q1 2011 net sales increased 28% to $138.7 million, due to increased productivity of our account executives inclusive of significant growth in our new Chicago office, continuing economic recovery by small and medium size businesses, and an increase in sales to promotional companies. Our average order value in SMB grew by 16%.

Average account executive head continue during Q1 2011 in our SMB segment was 374, up 2% over last year. SMB gross profit increased by 26% to $16.9 million, resulting primarily from the 28% sales increase, and $0.5 million increase in vendor consideration. SMB gross profit margin decreased to a 12.2% from 12.4% last year, primarily due to 47 basis point decrease in vendor consideration as a percentage of net sales.

SMB once again scaled nicely, with operating profit increasing 44% to $9.2 million, driven primarily by the increase in gross profit, partially offset by $700,000 increase in SMB personnel costs. This increase in SMB personnel cost was primarily due to an increase in variable compensation expenses due to the increased SMB gross profit, and our continuing investment growth in our Chicago office. Q1 operating margin for SMB was 6.6% compared to 5.9% last year.

We continue to be pleased with the growth and performance of our Chicago office. At the end of Q1, we had 93 SMB account executives in the Chicago office, and we expect to continue hiring in that location throughout 2011. For our MME or mid market and enterprise segment, Q1 2011 net sales increased 15% to $110.5 million, primarily due to increased account executive productivity and increased IT spending by customers in the mid market and enterprise sector.

Product revenues increased by 10%, while service revenue increased by 19%. Service revenues represented 20% of MME net sales in Q1 2011 compared to 19% of sales last year. The service revenue increase was primarily due to the inclusion of service revenues of NSPI, which we acquired in June of 2010, as well as a 23% increase in service sales performed under our Abreon brand, which is primarily focused on change, management and e-learning consulting.

These increases in service revenues were partially offset by a 6% decrease in MME's SARCOM branded professional managed services. Average account executive head count during Q1, 2011 in our MME segment was 111, up 3% over last year. MME gross profit increased by 9% to $18 million, and MME gross profit margin decreased to 16.3% from 17.1% last year. But increased 160 basis points sequentially from 14.7% in Q4, 2010.

The increase in MME gross profit was primarily due to the 15% sales increase, and the decrease in MME gross profit margin was primarily due to lower selling margin in our SARCOM business, and the lower mix of fees from enterprise software agreements that are reported on a net basis. MME operating profit increased 12% to $5.2 million primarily due to the 9% increase in gross profit, partially offset by a $200,000 increase in personnel costs, and a $200,000 increase in depreciation and amortization expenses primarily related to the acquisition of NSPI.

The increase in MME personnel was due in part to an increase in variable compensation costs related to the increased gross profit and acquisition of NSPI. Overall our MME operating profit margins declined to 4.7% from 4.8% last year.

For our public sector segment, which sells to the federal government as well as state, local, and educational institutions, which we also refer to as SLED, total net sales declined 28% to $31.7 million, due to a 42% decrease in our federal government business resulting primarily from an 80% reduction in sales of Sun Micro Systems Solutions, which we believe is substantially related to the acquisition of Sun by Oracle in January of 2010, and resulting vendor program changes made in Q2 2010 in connection with Sun Solutions.

Since the initial impact on us of the Sun acquisition began in Q2, 2010, we feel that Q1 will be the last quarter of significant year-over-year declines related to the Sun business. The decrease in our federal government business was also impacted by the delays in passage of the federal budget. Sales in our federal government business, excluding sales of Sun Micro System Solutions, decreased 11% in Q1 2011, over the same period in the prior year.

Net sales in our SLED business increased 5%, driven by stronger demand. Average account executive head count during Q1 2011 in our public sector segment was 103, up 17% over the prior year, with growth in new account executives focused on the SLED business, offset by declines in account executives focused on our fed business.

Public sector gross profit decreased by $400,000 or 12% to $3.2 million, but public sector gross profit margin increased to 10.1% from 8.2% last year. The decrease in public sector gross profit was primarily due to decline in sales, and the increase in public sector gross profit margin was primarily due to an increase in vendor consideration as a percentage of sales related to an increase in higher margin solutions in Q1 2011.

Public sector operating profit decreased to $41,000 in Q1 2011, compared to $400,000 in Q1 2010. The decrease in operating profit was primarily due to the decrease in gross profit, as well our continuing investment in our health dynamics division.

For our Mac mall segment, which no longer includes the revenues and costs associated with the onSale business, Q1 2011 net sales increased 18% to $46.6 million, primarily due to significant sales of iPads during the quarter, as well as our efforts to focus on higher-profit customer segments such as small businesses, creative professionals, and high end consumers, partially offset by a reduction in web-based sales to consumers.

Mac Mall gross profit increased by $500,000 or 12%, to $4.9 million on the increase in sales. Mac Mall gross profit margin decreased to 10.5% in Q1 2011, compared to 11.0% last year, primarily due to large volume of lower margin iPad sales during Q1 2011, partially offset by a 49 basis point increase in vendor consideration as a percentage of net sales.

Mac Mall operating profit more than doubled to $1.3 million, primarily due to the increase in gross profit, and a $100,000 decrease in advertising expenditures. Operating margin for Mac Mall grew to 2.8% from 1.6% last year. These operating margin gains were attained while increasing our account executive head count by 23%, to 118 account executives during Q1 2011, primarily supporting our effort on driving sales to small businesses.

Our onSale segment now includes sales made under our onSale and eCOST brand names, primarily to consumers and small businesses via the internet. As Frank indicated, and as you may have seen in the separate press release, we issued this afternoon, the segment is also developing a platform to expand its model to include marketing of daily deals and local markets through social commerce.

Q1 2011 net sales for our onSale segment increased four-fold to $8.6 million compared to $1.8 million last year, primarily due to an increase in sales through our traditional onSale business, and $1.7 million of net sales resulting from our acquisition of eCOST in February 2011. OnSale gross profit increased more than 8 times to $900,000 in Q1 2011, compared to less than $100,000 in Q1 2010. Gross profit margin increased to 10.6% in Q1 2011, compared to 5.6% in Q1 2010.

The increase in onSale gross profit and gross profit margin was primarily due to the increase onSale net sales and a better product mix. OnSale's operating loss increased by $400,000 to $500,000 in Q1 2011, compared to $100,000 in Q1 2010. This increase in onSale's operating loss was primarily due to a $0.5 million of cost related to the expansion of our onSale business model, including legal and personnel investment, and transition costs related to eCOST acquisition.

In addition, advertising expenditures supporting our traditional onSale business increased by $400,000, offset by the increase in onSale gross profit. OnSale ended the quarter with 26 sales executives, most of whom were hired late in the quarter. In the prior year, onSale ran as a 100% on-line website and did not have any dedicated sales executives.

Corporate and other operating expenses include corporate related expenses such as legal, accounting, information technology, product management, and certain support services and other administrative costs, that are not otherwise included in the reportable operating segments. Q1 2011 corporate and other operating expenses increased by $2 million or 19% to $13.2 million, from $11.2 million last year, and increased $700,000 sequentially from Q4 2010.

The increase in Q1 2011 versus Q1 2010 was primarily related to an increase in personnel costs of $1.4 million, resulting from additions in IT and distribution personnel, increased variable incentive compensation costs, and $500,000 charge relating to an unreimbursed write-down of end-of-life first-generation Apple iPads upon release of iPad 2.

On the balance sheet side, accounts receivable decreased from year-end by $13.9 million to $170 million at March 31, 2011. Our inventory of $58 million at March 31, 2011 represents a decrease of $5.6 million from year-end, reflecting sell through of seasonal purchases made in late 2010. Accounts payable at March 31, 2011 of $101.4 million decreased by $23.4 million from year-end.

Outstanding borrowings under a line of credit increased by $11.8 million to $62.1 million at March 31, 2011, compared to year-end, reflecting primarily our purchase of the El Segundo building in February of 2011. We intend to secure a long-term mortgage for that property in the second quarter of 2010.

Our capital expenditures, excluding the new building and eCOST, were approximately $1.9 million during the quarter reflecting our continuing investments in our IT infrastructure. Working capital decreased by $9.2 million during the quarter compared to Q4 2010 due to the building purchase and the acquisition of eCOST. Now I would like to turn call over to Kris Roger

KRIS ROGERS, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, PC MALL, INC.: At this time I will review the product category results, which are calculated based upon gross field revenue. With the solid revenue growth in Q1 2011 we saw strong year-over-year growth in all of our leading product categories. We are pleased to see consistent growth across our strategic focus area for 2011, all of which are centered around the opportunities of the data center, the network and across mobile workers with additional emphasis on virtualization and collaboration trends.

Our largest category for Q1 2011 was notebooks at 20% of our revenue, up from 16% of our mix in Q1 2010, with revenue growth of 40% over Q1 2010. The increase in notebook sales was due in part to our iPad growth, although the growth rate did slow down in Q1 as Apple transitioned to the iPad 2, and there were product allocation issues. The bulk of the growth, however, came from the traditional notebook category, where we saw growth across all price bands and which we believe is a reflection of our focus on our mobility solutions practice, as well as a resurgence in spending by commercial customers.

Our second largest category in first quarter 2011 was the software category, which represented 16% of the mix, down from 18% of our revenues last year. Growth in this category was 2% over Q1 2010. The slow growth in Q1 was primarily due to several large software transactions in Q1 2010 which did not recur, as well as the result of a large gov software contract vehicle in which a number of transactions are in their off-year cycle. We also saw some slow down in one of our largest publisher as they prepare for a large launch in Q2 2011, which naturally depressed sales in late Q1 2011.

On a positive note, we did see double-digit growth in Microsoft, particularly in the SMB segment, and added 2 new gold competencies during Q1 2011. Our next largest category was desktop at 10% of sales, compared to 9% of sales in Q1 2010 with growth of 21% over Q1 2010. Desktop sales growth was driven by strength in small and medium business purchasing across all price bands for desktops, coupled with several large desktop rollouts in our mid-market and enterprise phase. In addition, desktop growth was driven by triple-digit growth in our workstation revenues as we benefited from several large customer projects during the quarter.

The iPod MP3 category came in as the next largest category. It represented 7% of our revenues, up from 4% of the mix last year, and grew 99% over Q1 2010. The high growth during the quarter is largely due to sales of iPods to promotional companies.

Networking sales grew 6% year over year, and were 6% of our revenues, down from 7% of our mix in Q1 2010. The growth in Q1 2011 was a function of a ramp during the quarter after a slow start for networking in the mid-market enterprise phase, offset by consistently strong linear quarter growth in the SMB segment. We believe the slow start in the mid-market enterprise phase is primarily a function of budgets taking a while to get approved, and have seen more normal growth patterns since March of this year.

As the networking category is a large part of our strategic focus area, expect to see growth accelerate as we head deeper in to 2011. Our overall delivered services, excluding package services, grew 8% year-over-year and represented 5% of our revenue, down from 7% of our mix in Q1 2010. The growth in services revenue was driven primarily by the addition of NSPI services and solid growth from our Abreon brand.

In both our SMB and public sector segments, we more than doubled the service revenues from Q1 2010 and expect to see those numbers continue to climb throughout 2011. We continue to invest in the expansion of our services portfolio, as well as resources to sell that portfolio into all commercial customer segments.

Displays grew 23% over Q1 2010 and represented 5% of our revenue, up from 4% of our sales in Q1 last year. Growth came both from the attach on our desktop sales growth but also as we continued to see acceleration in signage wins, with growth rates of large-format displays outstripping traditional LCD's.

Storage represented 5% of our revenue in Q1 2011, down from 8% of our revenue in Q1 2010 with year-over-year decline of 34%. Driven primarily by the decline in the Sun Micro System Storage Solutions. Our storage category represent all storage technologies from consumer external hard drives all the way to enterprise solutions.

In the consumer business class products category, unit growth was up 20%, but year-over-year revenue growth was flat, a function of a continuing ASP decline. We did see as a result of the Japanese crisis, both product constraints and prices increases as we closed the quarter, and it's unclear what availability and pricing will be like through Q2 2011 and beyond.

On the enterprise storage side we saw a mixed performance in Q1 2011. As I mentioned, we saw a significant decline to 76% with Sun Micro Systems. We also experienced a year-over-year decline with another large storage partner due to a large implementation in 2010 which does not recur. However, we did see strong double-digit growth across the rest of our enterprise storage portfolio.

Although growth was clearly needed, due to the slowness we experienced in overall demand in the mid-market enterprise segment in Jan. and Feb. of Q1 2011. Because this category is also strategic to our solutions growth target for 2011, we have added focused technical and marketing resources to accelerate our capabilities of our commercial and enterprise storage practice, and believe we have significant growth opportunities going forward.

Server sales grew by 15% in first quarter versus Q1 of last year and represented 4% of our revenue in Q1 2011. Flat with 4% of our mix last year, with gross coming across all manufacture partners with the exception of Sun Micro Systems. Non Sun server sales growth rates were all up in solid double digits over last year, which we believe is a result of the focus we have on hitting our strategic solutions targets. Growth in server category came in all commercial customer segments, and across all non-Sun server partners, and we expect growth to continue throughout the year.

Q2 2011 also marks the first quarter for Sun Micro Systems where we will be showing better comparisons as the program changes we that believe have driven the Sun share losses happening in Q2 2010. Manufactured package services represented 3% of our sales in first quarter 2011, down from 4% of our mix last year and we are down slightly 2% from last year. During Q2 2011, we are adding on an initiative which we believe will improve the process for our sales force to sell extended warranties and facilitate a stronger growth pattern.

Interest dropped to 2% of our revenues, versus 3% in Q1 2010, and declined by 6% of our last year's Q1. While unit sales were flat, ASP declines continue to impact growth rates. On a positive note, while it's early days for us in our managed print services business, we are starting to see more opportunity in the mid-market for these engagements.

Power is also important category given our focus on solutions for the data virtualization, but in Q1 2011 showed a 10% decline over the prior year. Power represented 2% of our revenues in Q1 2011. Unit sales were up by 16%, but overall mix resulted in lower revenues in Q1 2011.

From a manufacture concentration stand point on a gross consolidated basis our top 5 manufactures for Q1 2011 were Apple, HP, Lenovo, Microsoft and Cisco, respectively. Which in aggregate represented approximately 59.7 of total revenue. As a point of reference, the top 5 manufacturers for Q1 2010 were HP, Apple, Lenovo, Cisco and Sun, which represented approximately 51.4% of revenues in Q1 2010. At this point I will turn the call back over to Frank Khulusi.

FRANK KHULUSI: I would like to take a few minutes to discuss in more detail some of our more significant accomplishments and activities in Q1 2011. First, we talked extensively during the past several quarters about our continuing investments in our SMB business, our healthcare business, the small business network, and upgrade of our IT systems and processes. All of those investments are continuing, but importantly they are increasingly contributing to our top and bottom line growth.

We are very pleased with our Chicago operation and our SMB business, and we continue to invest in capabilities of processes to improve our position in the SMB market. The number of active users on our SMB platform now exceeds 65,000, and we continue to attract new users to our social media community. Our IT upgrades continue, which will improve our productivity and lower our cost structure over time.

In short, we are very pleased that the results of our continuing investments in growth are bearing fruit. In Q1 of 2011, we acquired a new office building in El Segundo, California, that will house our new headquarters operation. We feel like the building is a significant upgrade from our current facility and we were able to acquire new billing at a very attractive price. We anticipate moving into the building in the fall, and are excited about what it means to our employees, vendor partners, and customers.

Additionally, in Q1 we acquired certain assets of eCOST.com, which we have combined with our onSale business to form a new operating segment. We made this acquisition in part because we felt we could leverage some of eCOST's technology, expertise, and customer base to more effectively expand our onSale business model to become an online destination where consumers can find daily deals on desirable goods and services in their local markets by leveraging the principles of social commerce.

At this point I would like to provide you with some additional details on the expansion of our onSale business. We are excited about this opportunity for 2 reasons. One, market is large, and growing rapidly. Two, this really is a market that we are very well-positioned for and that we are well-suited to do well in. It is in many ways a great fit for us.

The market calls for expertise in several areas, most of which we have deep experience with. It is in our DNA. We will be able to take advantage of our deep experience in data base, e-mail, and new media marketing to consumers, as well as our capabilities and executing on outbound calling to merchants and 5-plus year experience of locating certain support functions offshore in the Philippines for a reduced cost structure. We have spent years building the skill set we will need to be successful in the endeavors and are optimistic about this market and our chances for success.

While I don't want to simply restate what was in the press release today, I will give you a few of the highlights. OnSale intends to launch this effort through its existing website, onSale.com, in several markets with hyper-local marketing programs later in the second quarter and quickly expand thereafter into other markets across the country.

OnSale has already begun partnering with local and national merchants who will offer discounts through the site, and as of today consumers can sign up to receive daily updates and offers once the site is launched. They have hired dedicated teams made up of talented professionals and have approximately 81 people on board as of today.

Most members of our support staff are currently working in our operation located in the Philippines. Though there are others in this market that have raised significant capital and have a bit of head start on us from launch perspective, this market is massive. It is an important and growing channel through which local merchants can reach and attract new customers, and consumers can try new products or services while securing significant discounts.

We believe that the model we have built is scalable over different verticals and geographies, and can accommodate local, regional and national [deals]. Because of our expertise in so many of the skill sets required for success in this business, we think we are very well-positioned to succeed.

Additionally, we are not viewing this launch or this business that end game for this model. As others have shown and are no doubt contemplating, as our additional models and strategies and our derivatives of are based on this model. We are firmly committed to this market as it evolves, and are already exploring additional avenues of growth for onSale.

In closing, as we move forward into the middle of 2011, we believe that we are better-positioned in large part of investments we made in late 2009 and during 2010. Our businesses are performing quite well; we continue to see strong growth in our SMB, MME and Mac Mall businesses. Our gov business worked incredibly hard over the past year to diversify its product portfolio and build its solutions portfolio and we're optimistic about that business going forward.

Additionally, we have taken significant steps to increase our sales of solutions and services across our commercial customer bases, which we think should contribute positively to our profitability going forward. We are optimistic about the demand environment in 2011 and we believe that our competitive position is as strong as its ever been.

We continue to be convinced that seeking new opportunities for growth will always be in the best interest of PC Mall and it's constituents and the development and launch of onSale expanded business model is a great example of that mindset. It will be a significant event for us, and we are excited about future of onSale and what it means to consumers, merchants and PC Mall.

Now I would like to open up the call for any questions you may have. We would like to handle this Q&A session a bit differently than we typically do. We would like to take any and all questions not related to onSale first and when those questions have been asked and answered we will come back around and answer questions people might have related to onSale.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from the line of Chris Krueger with North Land Capital Markets.

CHRIS KRUEGER, ANALYST, NORTHLAND SECURITIES: Good afternoon.

FRANK KHULUSI: Hello, Chris.

CHRIS KRUEGER: We are covering the core businesses. Can you talk a bit about month to month trends in the quarter, and potentially how it's led in to the second quarter as well?

FRANK KHULUSI: Yes, so the business from a month to month trend perspective performed very well, in SMB and consumer, and as we discussed in the conference call for our fourth quarter, we did indicate that maybe business was off to a slow start in January and February as a result of a hangover from the end of the year and a budget flux at the end of last year. We are pleased to say that in March it came back very strong. Those trends largely have continued through the second quarter, and we've discussed in detail the issues that are specific to the Gov business and the opportunities that exist for the Gov business going forward.

CHRIS KRUEGER: We are looking at your margins that you get within your PC Notebook segment or, I'm looking at what kind of margins do you get on it the tablets versus laptops and PCs? Is it a similar range, or lower margin, or higher?

FRANK KHULUSI: On the tablets -- tablets are the question, as the market is expanding quite rapidly into other brands. But the brand that's been the most prominent out there has been and continues to be a lower margin proposition for us, unfortunately. Both on the front end as well as the back end.

CHRIS KRUEGER: In the past, at times you've stated an operating margin goal, whether it's several quarters away or whatever the case may be -- do you have an operating margin goal for either the coming quarter, or by year end, or for next year?

FRANK KHULUSI: It's probably important to start looking at the business as really two separate pieces. One is the core business and one is the newly expanded onSale business, and as such, for the core business, it is seasonal and significant leverage in the business with additional sales growth. Two things have to take place, we are working towards both of those things and some of those things happen naturally, seasonally. Have to happen for operating margin expansion to take place.

One is sales growth, and other one is SG&A will not grow at the same clip as the sales growth. That was demonstrated in the fourth quarter, and that should be able to be demonstrated again in our stronger quarters, or the second quarter that's seasonally strong for us on the [flat] side. The third quarter typically is strong for us on the fed side, and fourth quarter is strong across all areas, from end of year budget flush and corporate, as well as a strong consumer quarter. All in all, we are optimistic about operating margin, but currently we are not stating a target.

CHRIS KRUEGER: That's all I got, thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our next question comes from the line of Brian Alexander with Raymond James.

BRIAN PETERSON, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES EURO EQUITIES: Hello. Good afternoon. This is Brian Peterson stepping in for Brian Alexander. The services gross margins were down a little bit year-over-year, despite the services mix being up. You alluded to pricing or margin issues on the Abreon business. Could you elaborate a little bit more on that?

FRANK KHULUSI: I do not believe you are correct with that statement.

KRIS ROGERS: We will check the numbers, Brian, but I think that what we talked about is the fact that we saw strong growth, and obviously NSPI is all net accretive to us. And Abreon had very strong growth in the quarter; and I think that the Abreon market specifically focused on the enterprise space as well as the healthcare space, and that we are seeing good demand there. Without really significant pressure on margins, it's really a function right now of whether or not the opportunity exists in that space; i.e., budget dollars are getting approved for the more strategic type projects that Abreon engages in. And I actually think that we had slight improvement in our margins in the SARCOM brand services, which is the larger part of our service portfolio; and so we are not really seeing any significant pressure. Candidly, our focus in the services business right now really is on growth of the topline.

BRIAN PETERSON: Okay. If I'm looking at your growth, especially on the commercial side, I parsed it out at SMB and MME; it looks like SMB was stronger over the course of 2010, and that continued in to the first quarter. Do you think that continues for the rest of the year, just from kind of a macro level, or do you think MME might start to pick up, especially given some of the trends you are seeing in services?

FRANK KHULUSI: I would hate to answer this with a -- one of the beauties about PC Mall is, we are like a well-diversified investment portfolio, at least as far as IT product sales goes, right? We are as far as core business goes, in 4 segments, and overall in 5 segments; and we can't really predict by year end which business is going to perform better. What I will tell you is that we see opportunity in all those segments, and the demand trends are very positive, the pipelines are very positive, and we continue to feel strongly and are committed to all those segments equally. The segment that has performed as you indicated the best right now is SMB, but if you look back at our history, there is times when MME has outperformed SMB, et cetera. That's the beauty of what we do. We're going to be out there for our customers, and whatever the demand is, we're going to be able to pursue it. Currently, though, based on what we see today, which may or may not bode for the rest of the year, we do expect MME to improve in the key areas that we are having them focus on; specifically in selling the higher margins, more profitable product line. Kris, do you want to add anything?

KRIS ROGERS: No, I think Frank has characterized it correctly. We did state in our call in Q1, just from a server growth perspective, that MME in January was slow to start, and so I think that's reflected in the overall growth rate for the MME business on the product side in Q1. We did see it return to what I would consider to be a more seasonal normal pattern in March, and we have seen all the right things happen in April and May as we've gone through the quarter. Keep in mind that the MME business tends to be more dependent -- dependent is probably the wrong word -- it can be more impacted by large projects, where the SMB business because of the sheer volume of customers who support an SMB, tends to be less variable; so I think we are optimistic about MME, and the hope is that you will continue to see it accelerate in both services and high end solutions. And on the SMB side, I think the investments Frank spoke about will continue to pay off. It would be hard to say at this point in time that the high growth rates you've seen in SMB -- some of which were on weaker comps; keep in mind that SMB was a leading indicator, it went into the decline first and came out of it first. Every quarter that goes by, the comps get stronger, get harder and harder for SMB. That's something you have to factor in.

FRANK KHULUSI: The other thing is, we are very pleased with the growth rate we did exhibit for MME in the first quarter. I do consider it to be a strong growth rate.

BRIAN PETERSON: The last one for me -- I know you are implementing new systems. Can you give us an update on what inning we are in that process, and some of the productivity improvements you have seen? So far, when you expect those to run into the numbers. Thanks.

FRANK KHULUSI: Well, the upgrades are very extensive -- everything from our phone system to our website to our IT systems to HR systems, and on and on and on a lot of infrastructure to our CRM application, et cetera. We, in large part, completed upgrades on our infrastructure side and our telephony side. We have rolled out the upgrades in accounting, and have been on that for the greater part of the year now. With respect to HR, we are very close, and CRM is in the final stages of development, should be rolling out shortly; and then the fist step in terms of the RP up grade will be SMB business, and then we will look at other segments as we go forward. So far, so good. Like everything else, you get hurdles in the road that you have to jump over, and unforeseen things; but the way we are doing this is very prudent and we are happy with the results so far.

BRIAN PETERSON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we will now open the call to your questions pertaining to onSale.

(Operator Instructions)

Our next question comes from the line of Brian Alexander with Raymond James.

BRIAN ALEXANDER, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Hello. Just curious what the vendor overlap potentially looks like on this; whether it's going to be primarily focused on IT products or not. My sense is it would be more so than that; it's with your existing vendors -- is there an opportunity to maybe pool rebates where you are actually getting some margin leverage with this in your core business? Secondly, how has the progress been? I know it's still early in this process in looking at other vendors outside of the core IP space.

FRANK KHULUSI: There maybe some opportunities with respect to some of the vendors that we deal with. That's something that we plan on leveraging going forward. However, the bulk of the opportunity and the bulk of the focus is in areas outside of IT. As a matter of fact, we want to be for the most part far away from IT as we can, to enjoy richer gross margins and richer operating margins. It is out there that on a more mature basis, as you get significant topline in this business, operating margins in this business can be well north of 20%, and you are not going to get that on selling IT stuff at 12%, 13%, 14% gross margin. So that's one of the things we are very excited about ,and one swoop and one jump, we are going to be in a heck of a lot of product categories, dealing with a heck of a lot of vendors.

We have a lot of skill sets to bring to the table. Outbound telemarketing capability to the businesses, which we've done for a very long time now; that will be put to work and has been put to work on calling merchants and developing relationships with merchants, and having them sign up to using us; and then, one of the advantages we have had over most of our competitors in this space, our experience on the consumer side -- so the value add we bring to those merchants is our experience on the consumer side. So after we sign them up, we act as a lead source for them, especially when they have limited experience themselves in those areas, and bringing them new customers and putting them in new markets. It really is a perfect fit. We have already had salespeople calling on merchants. We have lined up quite a few merchants for our launch that we plan on in short order here over the next few weeks, and before the end of the quarter. Stay tuned for more. Definitely a lot of product categories and a lot of markets outside of consumer electronics and outside of computers.

BRIAN ALEXANDER: Can you expand a little bit on how your -- I definitely see the synergies with the outbound sales force potentially recruiting vendors in this business, but how does that compare to some of your other competitors or existing competitors -- call it Groupon or whoever in this market -- do you know how that would stack up against them?

FRANK KHULUSI: Yes, we have a lot of advantages and core competencies that are different and in some cases unique; and there are a lot of synergies with the existing business that we are expanding, and this is an expansion of our existing business for a lot of reasons. For 1, 1 of the things that I think is very good and unique is that, for a lot of these, for similar site, when you do refer a customer or bring someone else, you get a credit that you can use towards buying a coupon. You may be the kind of customer that, yes, you have a lot of people that you can refer, but you would like to use the credit for something else. One of things we are going to be able to do in the future is allow these customers who rack up credits at onSale, to use the credits towards buying consumer electronics or other things, such as iPods or whatever may be hot at that time.

Really cool feature. Our eCommerce capability is going to allow us to do a lot of national deals and national fulfillment type deals and things of this sort. There are a lot of things, for competitive reasons we don't want to open up the kimono with respect to everything that differentiates us, and everything that is going to make us exciting. Stay tuned as we roll out some of these things, and one of the things that differentiates us, we are used to dealing in a competitive environment. And we look forward to being competitive out there, and we think we can act quickly and innovate, and I think that business model is going to change over time and we'll be out there and a lot of cases leading this change.

BRIAN ALEXANDER: Just the last one for me, Frank. You mentioned that this business potentially carries 20% plus type margins. Is there a revenue level, even on a rough basis, that you think you would need to be scaled to get that business, versus where we are today?

FRANK KHULUSI: I think what I was referring to is a lot of the press out there with respect to the model, and some of the competitors, and what they have been able to generate. I encourage you to do your own research with respect to what that is. Where it's early innings for us, to use analogy to your question about baseball; and it really would not be prudent for us to forecast what kind of revenue stream for us it would take for us to get to a certain operating margin target. We are very excited and interested, and we think that business can generate a lot. One of the reasons I'm shying away from that is operating margin is a function of how quickly we ramp up our presence in certain markets.

You can look at it both on a contribution basis, and a fully mature market or on a fully loaded basis, including your ramp up cost into new markets. That would be too detailed of a conversation to enter into now. One thing we are not going to do is spend recklessly there. We are going to be prudent about our investment, but we are not be penny wise and pound foolish. We plan on ramping up our efforts into as many markets as possible, as quickly as possible, with an eye towards being in most of the key areas in the country as quickly as we can.

BRIAN ALEXANDER: Thanks, guys.

FRANK KHULUSI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

FRANK KHULUSI: It appears there are no further questions. Thank you, Melanie. I would like to thank everyone on the PC Mall team for their continued efforts, dedication and good work. In addition, thank you all very much for spending some time with us on this call, and for your interest in PC Mall. We appreciate your support, and look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter conference call. In the meantime, please contact us with any questions or if you have any for IP solutions. Thank you again, and have a great evening.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. That does conclude the presentation, you may disconnect. Have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | chico : Chicago | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | usil : Illinois
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110524e75a006mz
  


 HD
 Q2  2011 Dolby Laboratories Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,450 words
   PD
5 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Dolby Laboratories' conference call discussing second-quarter fiscal 2011 financial results. During today's presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, you will be invited to participate in a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this call is being recorded, Thursday, May 5, 2011. I would now like to turn the conference over to Alex Hughes, Senior Director of Investor Relations for Dolby Laboratories. Please go ahead.

   TD
ALEX HUGHES, SENIOR DIRECTOR - IR, DOLBY LABORATORIES, INC: Good afternoon, and welcome to Dolby Laboratories' second-quarter fiscal 2011 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Kevin Yeaman, Dolby Laboratories' President and CEO; Murray Demo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ramzi Haidamus, Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing.

On this conference call, we will be making forward-looking statements that include projections of future operating results for our fiscal year ending September 30, 2011; market trends for the industries in which we compete, and our expectations and beliefs concerning how these trends will affect our operating results; the capabilities and market acceptance of our products and technologies; and our strategic and operational plans and objectives. These statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Actual results may differ materially from these set forth in such statements. Important factors such as general economic, cinema, or PC market conditions could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors are addressed in the earnings press release that we issued today, and under the section captioned Risk Factors, and elsewhere in our most recent orderly report on Form 10-Q available at www.SEC.gov or on our website at www.Dolby.com, under the investor relations section. Dolby disclaims any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

During this call, we will discuss GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between the two is available on our earnings release and in the Dolby Laboratories' Investor Relations data sheet on our investor relations section of our website.

Call participants are advised that the audio of this conference call is being broadcast live over the Internet. It is being also recorded for playback purposes. An archive of the call will be made available on our website for approximately 1 year, and is the property of Dolby.

As for the structure of this call, Murray will begin with a recap of Dolby's financial results, and provide an updated outlook, and Kevin will finish with a discussion of the business. And with that introduction behind us, I will now turn the call over to Murray.

MURRAY DEMO, EVP, CFO, DOLBY LABORATORIES, INC: Thanks, Alex. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining the call. I'd like to discuss Dolby's fiscal second-quarter financial performance and our outlook for fiscal 2011. Revenue for the second quarter was $250 million, up 3% both year over year and sequentially. Licensing revenue for the second quarter was $214.6 million, up 10% year over year and 14% sequentially. The year-over-year increase was driven primarily by our broadcast market, as well as our other markets category led by mobile and gaming.

Looking at licensing revenue by market for the second quarter of fiscal 2011, PC revenue declined 8% year over year, primarily due to lower revenue from ISV software, and increased 11% sequentially on shipments of Windows 7. Broadcast revenue increased 36% year over year, and 26% sequentially, primarily due to increases in both TV and set-top boxes. Revenue from our consumer electronics market decreased 3% year over year, and 6% sequentially, primarily on lower revenue from DVD. The sequential decline was also due to higher DVD back royalties in our first quarter of approximately $4.5 million, which we discussed on last quarter's call. Revenue from our other markets category, which includes mobile, gaming, automotive, and [via], increased 27% year over year and 29% sequentially. The year-over-year and sequential increases were driven primarily by mobile and gaming.

Second-quarter product revenues were $26.3 million, down 34% year over year and 43% sequentially. The year-over-year decline was primarily driven by lower sales of 3D systems, and the previously discussed change in revenue recognition accounting, which benefited Q2 fiscal 2010 by approximately $8 million. The sequential decline was driven primarily by lower shipments of 3D and digital cinema systems. The revenue shortfall was driven by increased competition and lower 3D system demand due to weak box office results. Second-quarter services revenue was $9.1 million, up 19% year over year, and 6% sequentially.

Turning to margins, GAAP gross margin was 88.6% in the second quarter, and 90.1% on a non-GAAP basis. Our licensing gross margin was 97.3% in the second quarter on a GAAP basis, and 98.7% on a non-GAAP basis. GAAP product gross margin was 24% in the second quarter, and 26.4% on a non-GAAP basis. Product margins declined primarily due to a $4.2 million in discrete charges in the quarter related to 3D inventory adjustments, a loss on the sale of certain digital cinema systems provided to exhibitors under operating leases, and royalty-related charges. GAAP services gross margin was 70.7%, and non-GAAP services gross margin was 71.2% in the second quarter.

Second-quarter GAAP operating expenses were $101.1 million, and non-GAAP operating expenses were $89.6 million. Both were slightly down sequentially. Total employee headcount was 1,291, an increase of 30 employees from the previous quarter. The increase was primarily in R&D, and sales and marketing. Second-quarter operating income was $120.5 million on a GAAP basis, or 48.2% of revenue, and $135.7 million on a non-GAAP basis, or 54.3% of revenue. Second-quarter other income was $2 million on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis.

Turning to tax, our effective tax rate for the second quarter was 32.7% on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. Second-quarter GAAP net income was $82.1 million or $0.72 per diluted share, compared to $85.9 million or $0.74 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2010. Second-quarter non-GAAP net income was $92.2 million or $0.81 per diluted share, compared to $93.1 million or $0.80 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2010.

Moving over to the balance sheet, Dolby finished the second quarter with $1.134 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Cash flow from operations was $100.9 million in the second quarter. In the second quarter, we repurchased approximately 547,000 shares at a total cost of approximately $29.2 million, or an average price of $53.30 per share.

Now I will turn to our fiscal-2011 outlook. For total revenue, we are now targeting a range of $905 million to $945 million. Specifically for licensing, we continue to target revenue of $750 million to $780 million. Our outlook for licensing revenue is based on the following fiscal-2011 assumptions. In our PC market, we are now assuming PC shipments are flat to up 5%, and we continue to assume that ISV revenue declines approximately $25 million to $30 million in fiscal 2011.

In our broadcast market, we are now assuming worldwide TV unit growth between 3% and 7%. In our consumer electronics market, we continue to assume flat to mid-single-digit year-over-year revenue growth. We are now assuming that we receive royalties on approximately 27 million to 30 million Blu-ray units.

Turning to products and services, we are now targeting revenue of $155 million to $165 million compared to our previous range of $180 million to $190 million. The reduced revenue range is due to greater competition in the 3D market, increased pricing pressure, and higher 3D inventory levels at 1 distributor.

In regards to the impact from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, we have not identified any major negative variances to date, but continue to monitor the situation closely.

For gross margins, we continue to target approximately 88% on a GAAP basis, and 89% on a non-GAAP basis. For product margins, we're targeting a range of 38% to 39% on a GAAP basis, and 40% to 41% on a non-GAAP basis.

Turning to operating expenses, we are now targeting approximately $401 million to $413 million on a GAAP basis, compared to our previous range of $406 million to $418 million. And on a non-GAAP basis, we are now targeting approximately $350 million to $360 million, compared to our previous range of $355 million to $365 million. For other income, we are now targeting approximately $6 million to $7 million for fiscal 2011.

For tax, we expect the tax rate for each of the 2 remaining quarters in fiscal 2011 to be approximately 33% on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. Taking into consideration our actual tax rates for Q1 and Q2, combined with our expected tax rates for the remainder of the year, we continue to target a full-year tax rate of approximately 30% on a GAAP basis, and 33% on a non-GAAP basis.

For diluted earnings per share, we are now targeting a range of $2.49 to $2.65 on a GAAP basis, and $2.75 to $2.91 on a non-GAAP basis. We are now targeting approximately 113 million diluted shares outstanding for fiscal 2011.

And with that, I will turn the call over to Kevin.

KEVIN YEAMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, DOLBY LABORATORIES INC: Thanks, Murray. Good afternoon, everyone. As Murray discussed, we achieved stronger-than-expected licensing growth in the second quarter, driven by broadcast, gaming, and mobile, while we saw softness in 3D product sales. I would like to now spend some time discussing our long-term growth opportunities. At Dolby, we are passionate about making the entertainment experience more real and more immersive across all forms of delivery and playback. This is where we focus our efforts, and where we see many exciting opportunities ahead.

In looking at these opportunities, we are building on a strong foundation. Our technologies are incorporated into a wide range of home entertainment products, including digital televisions, set-top boxes, Blu-ray players, audio/video receivers, gaming consoles, and personal computers. This positions us to benefit from any increase in consumer spending across these areas, and to extend our technologies further into new geographies and devices.

In our broadcast market, we expect the continued adoption of our technologies internationally as the world transitions to digital television. Today, we estimate just under 60% of televisions and 40% of set-top boxes incorporate our technologies. This means that much of the available global market is left to be captured, primarily in geographies such as Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America. In all 3 regions, we are making excellent progress.

In China, Dolby Digital Plus has been made an optional format in the draft national TV standard. We believe this will help in our effort to extend our technologies to TVs produced and sold within China, which totals over 30 million units per year. We've also seen a high percentage of the country's high-definition channels on air, using our technologies. We believe these are important steps in making us a key ingredient technology in the Chinese broadcast ecosystem.

We are also making great progress in India. While India is in its earlier development stage of digital TV standards, we have already begun the important work of growing the adoption of our technologies through individual satellite providers offering HD programming. Recently, Tata Sky adopted Dolby Digital Plus, joining operator Air Digital TV with HD channels on air in our format. In addition, we've assisted the country's leading provider of HD programming, Star TV, in enabling its production of content in full surround sound. This is a significant upgrade from the mono audio standard in India, and Star TV is featuring Dolby Surround Sound prominently in its national advertising campaign.

Turning to Russia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America, we continue to actively engage the respective ecosystems, and are making progress promoting the adoption of our audio formats.

In addition to our efforts in broadcast, we are focused on bringing a more immersive audio experience to content delivered online or over cellular networks, whether enjoyed in the living room, on the PC, or from a growing array of portable entertainment devices. Today, consumers who experience content this way are too often forced to sacrifice on quality while also running into challenges around compatibility. By the time content gets to a mobile device, audio quality is significantly degraded from what the content creator intended originally, especially when compared to the quality of cinema or high-definition TV.

In addition, consumers are now playing back content from a wide range of platforms and devices, which is leading to a multitude of formats. As portable devices become more interconnected with home theater devices, such as TVs and PCs, compatibility issues arise. Through our technologies, both of these challenges can be overcome. By incorporating our technologies, portable devices can support our popular format in the home theater environment, while delivering a much more immersive and cinematic experience on the go. There is no reason why consumers shouldn't expect to play back all of their files in any environment with the immersive experience they have come to expect from home theater.

To achieve this, we are taking a similar ecosystem approach to what we took in the home theater environment. We're making good progress in our work with content providers and distributors. To date, leading online movie content services Netflix, Voodoo, Apple, Amazon, and Rovie's RoxioNow platform, all use Dolby's multi-channel formats to deliver 5.1 surround sound. Leading music services, such as Rhapsody and Omnifone, have also adopted our encoding tools to help content creators improve the quality of their service. We continue to strengthen our presence across the ecosystem by working with content creators, mobile operators, and online service providers, and look forward to continued progress.

In the area of technology platform providers, we are a working with IC manufacturers and operating system providers to support our technologies and formats. To date, significant IC suppliers to the mobile industry are supporting our technologies, including Texas Instruments and Analog Devices. As more consumers play back movie files from their handsets, we are seeing increased interest from IC manufacturers and mobile operators to support our formats. Some IC manufacturers want to ensure their mobile chipsets can playback a Dolby-encoded file, while some mobile operators see an opportunity to increase differentiation and charge a premium through our technologies. Dolby formats have also been adopted in leading operating systems reportable PCs, including Windows 7 and Apple Leopard.

For manufacturers of portable entertainment devices, Dolby Digital Plus and our post-processing technology suite, such as Dolby Mobile and PCEE 4, combine to deliver an immersive audio experience. In the category of handsets, Dolby Mobile has been incorporated into over 100 models to date, and Dolby Digital Plus is now in 14 models.

We have also seen the first tablets to ship in the market with Dolby technologies. 16 tablet models now include our technologies, including 8 tablet models with Dolby Digital Plus running Windows 7. We are in discussions with a number of tablet providers, and we expect our technologies to continue to be adopted in new models from multiple OEMs on a variety of platforms.

With that, let me turn to our cinema market. Murray discussed the second-quarter challenges we saw in cinema, and how this affects our outlook for the year. While we were disappointed with the Q2 results, we remain focused on serving the market with our portfolio of products, including audio processors, cinema servers, and 3D systems, as the industry continues to transition to digital cinema and 3D over the next 1 to 2 years. We believe the cinema market remains an attractive one.

In addition to being a significant opportunity in itself, it fosters a set of important relationships, with content creators and distributors who influence the adoption of technologies and other channels of content delivery. Working in cinema also helps catalyze innovations in audio and imaging, which can potentially be extended to consumer markets. We continue to see opportunities beyond digital cinema and 3D, where we can continue to enhance the experience with our integrated audio and video expertise. We recently introduced Dolby 7.1 to complement the immersive 3D experience. Dolby 7.1 helps artists deliver a more compelling 3D experience, and we are now looking to introduce this to exhibitors around the world, as well as bring it to consumer platforms, such as Blu-ray.

In addition to continued releases in the US, we have seen the first 7.1 releases in India, China, Spain, and the UK. Building on our work in cinema, we are also working closely with many in the broadcast industry to enable the efficient delivery of a full-resolution 3D experience, and believe we are making good progress. Finally, our research in imaging has led to the introduction of the Dolby Professional Reference Monitor, which has been greeted with industry-wide acclaim. The pro monitor displays the full color and detail of content, enabling the artist to better calibrate the image's dynamic range and color gamut.

In summary, we continue to build our brand and credibility across the cinema and entertainment ecosystems. As we do so, we remain focused on leveraging our core business to drive the continued adoption of our technologies globally, and into new categories and portable entertainment devices.

Operator, we're ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Please be sure to identify yourself and your firm at the outset. To be fair to all participants, we ask that you limit yourself to 1 question and 1 follow-up question until all participants have had a chance in the first round. If time allows, we will then come back to answer any remaining questions. Our first question will come from John Vinh from Collins Stewart.

JOHN VINH, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Hi, thanks for taking my question. First question is regarding licensing. I noticed that you had nudged down your underlying forecast for most of your segments with the exception of broadcast, but maintained your revenue guidance for the year. Can you talk about that, what is the offset there? Higher ASPs, or is broadcast making up the difference?

MURRAY DEMO: Hi, John. In terms of our licensing guidance for the year, we are maintaining at $750 million to $780 million. And while we are quite pleased with our performance in the second quarter, the weakness in PC units as it goes into the second half of the year is what is offsetting the over-performance in the second quarter. In terms of where we're seeing growth in the second quarter, it's coming primarily from mobile and from broadcast.

JOHN VINH: Okay. And then also, I noticed you had nudged down your forecast for Blu-ray slightly. Can you talk about that a little bit?

MURRAY DEMO: Yes, what happened there is, we're seeing a Blu-ray unit showing up in home theater in a box, and so that migration is leading to more revenue in home theater in a box, and we're seeing less on a stand-alone Blu-ray.

JOHN VINH: Okay, so even though units are down, the ASPs are higher for home theater in a box that's going to offset that?

MURRAY DEMO: We're seeing more revenue coming in home theater in the box because of Blu-ray, yes.

JOHN VINH: And then last question for me, and then I'll jump back in the queue, is on ISVs. How are you guys thinking about your ISV revenues longer term? Obviously, you have talked about $25 million to $30 million of headwinds this year. Do you expect that we start to stabilize as we get through that this year, or is this going to be a long-tailed wind down of ISV revenues over the longer term?

MURRAY DEMO: The ISV revenue this year has held consistent with the guidance we gave last quarter. As we look into future years, we do think that OEMs will continue to evaluate in which models to include ISV software. And so we do expect that it will continue to see some detach beyond this year. Of course, we haven't given any specific guidance beyond this year. And there's also some base level of ISV revenue that it stabilizes at. It's a little early for us to give guidance on that, but I would expect that we will continue to see people evaluating it as we go forward.

JOHN VINH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll hear next from Mike Olson with Piper Jaffray.

MIKE OLSON, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Thanks, good afternoon. You just walked through a bunch of potential growth drivers that could help to offset the challenges in the PC space, and which of those would you say you're most excited about, and which could have a material impact in the near term? In other words, does mobile, international, broadcast, and some of the other opportunities have the potential to be materially larger in the next several quarters?

MURRAY DEMO: So in the first case, I would say as it relates to the guidance in the second half of the year, when you think about the guidance, we had good strength in the second quarter, and that was driven by broadcast, mobile, and gaming. And when taken together with the weakness we see in PC unit volumes anticipated for the second half, we felt that we were still at a pretty good place with our range of guidance.

When we think about growth opportunities, both in the short and the long term, we continue to be excited about broadcast, as we've seen over many broadcast adoption cycles, we're doing the things that it takes to win in those markets. Those increases in attach rates don't tend to come nice and ratably, they tend to come in spurts. We see that we are doing all the right things in those markets, and so we look forward to that being a continued growth driver as we move forward.

Mobile is another. We see mobile grew nicely in Q2. We see it contributing to growth in the second half of the year, and we continue to be very optimistic about what that holds for our future with over 100 models in the market now with Dolby Mobile and 14 with Dolby Digital Plus, and also seeing the beginning of traction with tablets.

MIKE OLSON: All right. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Ingrid Chung with Goldman Sachs.

INGRID CHUNG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good afternoon. So first off, I was wondering how much of an impact do you think Japan is having for both demand and supply? And then secondly, in the past you have talked about 8 to 10 percentage points of increase in terms of attach rates for TVs previously. I was wondering if you're trending ahead of that, and how much of that increase is due to China? Thanks.

MURRAY DEMO: Ingrid, I will take on Japan, and I'll turn the attach rate on TVs to Kevin. In terms of Japan, clearly there is a great deal of uncertainty about what is going on in Japan, and we're monitoring the situation very closely. And there are 3 facets to that. First of all, we're looking at our own supply chain for the products that we ship, and we've not seen an impact in the supply chain for us.

The second area that we're looking at is the supply chain for our OEMs, and to date we haven't seen any material impacts, but there is a lot of uncertainty around that as we go into later in the year, and we will continue to monitor that as well. And then the third piece is the Japan domestic demand, and there again, we haven't seen any major variances to date, but it's something that we're continuing to monitor. And as we look at our guidance for the year, we've tried, because of the uncertainty in Japan, that's been factored into the guidance that we have in our revenue, especially in licensing of the $750 million to $780 million.

KEVIN YEAMAN: On the TV attach rate, yes, Ingrid, we're on track for about an 8 percentage point increase in the TV attach rate globally. That's really distributed across geographies, so we're still -- as I said, the reason we do all this work in market to work with operators, the really great progress we made with Star TV this quarter in India, to go from producing content in mono to producing it in full surround sound, and having that be something that they really use as a differentiator is to set the groundwork, and we know that over time, that can result in some good increases in attach rate. Right now, we're on track for what we set out at the beginning of the year, in terms of global TV attach rate, and that's what our guidance continues to assume.

INGRID CHUNG: And is China a portion of that?

KEVIN YEAMAN: China is a portion of that, again, we've seen, the increase we've seen this year has been relatively distributed across a number of markets, as opposed to say last year when we saw a really big inflection point in Europe, and that really was the major driver of the attach rate. This year, it's been distributed as we do a lot of groundwork in a lot of different geographies.

INGRID CHUNG: Okay, great. Thanks, Kevin and Murray.

OPERATOR: We'll hear our next question from Steve Frankel with Dougherty.

STEVE FRANKEL, ANALYST, DOUGHERTY & COMPANY: Good afternoon. Going back to the Chinese TV situation, what's the timetable for that proposed spec to become more formalized?

KEVIN YEAMAN: That's a tough one for us to answer, Steve. In the industry, what we hear is that it's a current work item, and it could happen any time, but these things have a process to them, and we have no ability to predict when the government will finalize its standardization process. But in the meantime, we continue to have very good engagement with the providers that are looking to get high-definition content on the air today. We are their provider in the majority of cases, and we think that being included as an option in the draft standard has been instrumental to them feeling comfortable that they're on the right path.

STEVE FRANKEL: Okay, and switching to the PC market, could you give us an update on penetration of PCEE? Are you losing landing slots to technologies like Beets, or do you feel like you're holding your own or gaining share?

RAMZI HAIDAMUS, EVP, SALES & MARKETING, DOLBY LABORATORIES INC: This is Ramzi. We're pretty confident with the latest progress that our latest technology is doing. As you might know, we just launched PCEE 4, just this year at CES, and as of today we have 24 announced SKUs, just for PCEE 4 alone. Cumulatively, we are at about 311 SKUs with our PCEE technology. That gives you around 30% or so attach rate. So, we're pretty happy with the progress, and believe we have a superior technology, and we'll continue to be pretty optimistic about this technology.

STEVE FRANKEL: Okay, and one last question on this 3D shipment. I understand from talking to customers in the industry, you've lost some market share, lost some customers to be installed. How many active units do you think you have in the field today, and did you ship any meaningful units in the quarter?

KEVIN YEAMAN: We did. Our shipments are now up to 7,800, up from 7,200, so we have 7,800 shipments to date. We think that the majority of those are in active use. But as we said, the weakness we saw in Q2, there is increased competition in the market. We are also affected by the weak box office, since we have a model where people pay up front for the installation, they tend to install in the week or 2 leading up to big titles, and there weren't as many of those in Q1 as there are expected through the rest of the year. And that also caused some of our -- one of our major channel partners are caught up in the same box office dynamics as we are, and one partner in particular, a larger partner of ours got some inventory in the channel as a result, and it's going to take us probably a couple of quarters to work through that.

But when I step back from all this, we're probably, if you believe that 50% of the screens worldwide will ultimately end up as 3D, we're probably about halfway through that deployment cycle as an industry. It's a discrete market for us, but it's one where we think, as I said, we've shipped about 7,800 screens, and we're going to keep fighting for each piece of business there. And we also see the cinema industry beginning to have the mind space to start thinking about what's next, beyond digital cinema and 3D, and we believe that having established ourselves as a video provider through our server and our 3D system, and of course, our recognized expertise in audio, that we have a lot to offer in terms of really thinking about the next generation experience, as people start to think about what's next.

STEVE FRANKEL: Okay, that's all my questions for now, thank you.

OPERATOR: And we will hear next from Paul Coster with JPMorgan.

PAUL COSTER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yes, thank you. It looks to me like your downward revision to EPS is about 10% versus the prior forecast, whereas the revenue has only come down by 3% or 4%, and yet the skew is more towards higher-margin licensing, which has been less affected by this downward revision. And so therefore, I'm not quite sure what's going on there. Is it that your product sales in the cinema side are attracting even lower margins than normal, and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future? Am I missing something?

KEVIN YEAMAN: No, Paul, I think that you're reading that right, and that is that it's in the product area that's driving the reductions in EPS. It's a combination of the revenue decline, and also, our margins are going down in the product area. It's a much more competitive market in the 3D space. We're going to be more aggressive on pricing to win business, and that's leading to lower margins, and that's coming down and affecting the EPS line.

PAUL COSTER: Okay, thank you. And then on the 3D solutions side, it sounds like you have something new coming to market. One of the things that you've been criticized for is for having active eyewear, which is quite expensive, and I know you brought down the cost of the eyewear, but this next-generation solution, will it move to passive and thus address that particular issue?

RAMZI HAIDAMUS: In the professional space, our 3D solution has always been passive, Paul, so I'm not clear on --.

PAUL COSTER: Oh, I'm sorry, then I misunderstood. I thought that the new 3D solution was for theaters, but it's going to be for the professional broadcast market, correct?

RAMZI HAIDAMUS: We do have a solution or a format that we're bringing into the broadcast and online market that's a competitive solution for high-definition, full-resolution 3D for the online as well as the television market, and that is something that can be used -- it can be used either in passive or in active eyewear.

PAUL COSTER: Okay, good, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) We will hear next from Daniel Ernst from Hudson Square Research.

DANIEL ERNST, ANALYST, HUDSON SQUARE RESEARCH: Yes, good evening. Thanks for taking my call. Looking at the tablet market, if we can kind of compare and contrast it to the risks we were facing a couple of years ago with the netbook market, which didn't really end up panning out. Would you put the tablet market in a similar area? But the follow-on to that would be, is it really just a question of market share, eg, Apple hasn't been much for adding additional technologies, and paying license fees. And so if they are the market, is there an opportunity for you on Apple tablets?

And then related to that, even just the other vendors gain share, that you've done well with so far getting on some early models, the comparison to the PC market would be, there is not an opportunity for ISV. So with netbooks, there was maybe an opportunity for multiple players, 1 in the operating system and 2 as an ISV, but on the tablet that probably doesn't exist?

KEVIN YEAMAN: So I'm trying to parse the number of questions that were embedded in that question.

DANIEL ERNST: It's really 1 question with some framing around what's the opportunity and risk within the tablet market?

KEVIN YEAMAN: Sure, so first of all, as it relates to the netbook market, we're off to a faster start with tablets than we were with netbooks, and that's because over the last couple of years, we've been doing a lot of work with portable devices, and how to improve the quality of the experience. And first and foremost, our success is being able to demonstrate that we can add value to that experience, and I believe we can do that. We've shown that we can do that, and that's why we've gone from not having any tablets in the market, to having about 16 with our technologies today.

Clearly, Apple is the dominant tablet provider in the space, and we do believe that we can significantly enhance the audio quality over that experience, and we engage with them. Obviously we need to convince them of that value. And I can't comment on the likelihood or timing of that, but we have a lot of confidence that we can improve the quality of the experience over any of these portable devices, wherever the content is coming from. Does that answer your question?

DANIEL ERNST: Yes, I think it does. It's a tough one to predict the future there, but that was good color. And then as a follow-up question looking at the internet video space, and obviously now that Netflix is delivering over 5.1, can you remind us what the economic model is, when a Netflix or a Voodoo is delivering the ability to have Dolby 5.1 or 7.1 or however that progresses, what the economic model to you is?

KEVIN YEAMAN: So in many of the cases, in most of the cases, it's much like our other markets where we do provide certain tools and services to content providers to get the content on air in our formats, and the content is destined for devices that support our formats, which is of course, where we collect royalties from those devices. In this case, they're oftentimes targeting devices where we're already included for other reasons, and so from the manufacturer perspective and the consumer perspective, it's just more value out of the technologies that are already on the device.

Now, I think part of what you're getting at is, a lot of times there are content providers that perhaps don't want to try to distinguish which devices have what, and we are exploring models that make sense in terms of a value proposition for those types of cloud service providers, and what the right economic model is. And I don't have any examples to cite today, but it's an area where we think we will be able to operate and create value.

DANIEL ERNST: Okay, thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: We'll hear next from Tom Kucera with Avondale Partners.

TOM KUCERA , ANALYST, AVONDALE PARTNERS: Hi, thank you for taking my question. I wanted to start by just talking about the PC market. Is there any way you guys could maybe quantify what that reduction in PC shipments would mean to your licensing revenues, the year-to-year forecasting?

KEVIN YEAMAN: I don't think we're going to specifically quantify it, and there are a lot of factors, but I think, again, at the highest level, as Murray said, when we look at our annual guidance we had upside in Q2, and we have the downward pressure from PC unit shipments, the outlook being a little lower in the second half. And all-in-all, we think that the guidance, when we weigh those factors and all the other things that are going on, we think the guidance range is still a good one.

TOM KUCERA : Okay, and maybe to slice that another way, because obviously, I think a lot of investors are paying close attention to those PC shipment numbers when they come out, and maybe you could talk about, when you receive that information, how do you guys react? And maybe what are some of the puts and takes you look at when you're modifying your forecast?

KEVIN YEAMAN: That's a good question. Look, the things to really focus on as it relates to our PC revenues are PC unit shipments, which of course, is where your question started. It's also really important to look at the mix between developed and emerging markets, largely because of the premium SKU and payment rate tends to be much better and developed than emerging markets. It's also very important to look at what's happening with ISV detach, and that's of course, something that we have provided guidance on, and we don't think that's changed significantly since the last time we talked.

So I guess one way to look at this, as compared to last quarter when we saw PC units coming down, and we adjusted our guidance, we had a number of factors, remember, that were coming into play. One was the reduction in unit guidance, the other was is that there was -- it was becoming apparent, the amount of the mix shift between developed and emerging markets. And the other was that we were, remember we saw an acceleration of the detach in ISV. In other words, our exit rate more or less, we still see the same and did see the same, but it was happening earlier in this year.

So last quarter, we had each one of those things being a factor as we looked at our guidance and what the right guidance level is. This quarter, the change since last quarter really is limited to that PC unit guidance. And so when we look at that, taken together with all of the factors that go into guidance, and as you know, there are a lot of factors that go into guidance, so it's hard to overweight any 1 specific factor. We think that the range is still a good range.

TOM KUCERA : Great, and if I could touch on the mobile segment for a moment. First, maybe you can talk about how important DD Plus is right now to the revenue out-performance you're seeing there versus Dolby Mobile?

KEVIN YEAMAN: Are you talking specifically about our Q2 results, or looking forward?

TOM KUCERA : A little of both.

KEVIN YEAMAN: A little of both. The Dolby Digital Plus handsets in the market tend to be the newer wins, so that hasn't been a big contributor to revenue yet. Dolby Mobile has been in the market longer and we continue to accumulate more handsets, so that has been a contributor to some of the growth we've seen in Q2 results. And together, when we look at mobile overall, Dolby Mobile and Dolby Digital Plus, we see it as one of the areas driving growth in the second half.

TOM KUCERA : And just on DD Plus, how would you say this market and the mentality of OEMs has changed over the last 3 months? In terms, are you getting more wins and so on; what do you think is driving that?

RAMZI HAIDAMUS: We see multiple factors driving this. Clearly, mobile handset providers want to play in the multimedia playback environment. They realize that content is coming from several channels. You have the internet-available content, whether that's online, streaming, or ripped content. You have operator-driven content; and Dolby Digital or Dolby Digital Plus provides a common denominator, a single codec that allows you to provide low-bit rate, high-quality surround sound, and you don't need to stream another codec, you don't need to have a secondary technology. It is really the one solution that can allow multimedia handset manufacturers to play back all types of content, irrespective of the source. And right now, those number of sources are increasing over time, and so that is the primary pull, and we have seen that number increase over time.

TOM KUCERA : Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) We will hear next from Andy Hargreaves from Pacific Crest Securities.

ANDY HARGREAVES, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Just going back to the product gross margin, if we adjust for the write down in the quarter, it looks like you'd be a little bit higher than 41%. Is that a reasonable expectation going forward?

MURRAY DEMO: Andy, in terms of product gross margin, as I said in my comments at the outset regarding -- about the outlook going forward, we're looking for the full-year product margins in the 38% to 39% on a GAAP basis, and 40% to 41% on a non-GAAP basis, so if you look at the Q1 and the Q2 actuals, and then you look at this as for the full year, you'll be able to come out to what this leads to.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay, thank you, sorry, I missed that. And then just a clarification on your Blu-ray comment. So are you saying that you're lowering stand-alone units, but your expectation for Blu-ray drives I guess, and CE products is basically the same, it's just that what would have been stand-alone units are now home theater in a box unit, so you're not counting them in the 27 to 30?

MURRAY DEMO: That's correct, so the revenue has just transitioned from Blu-ray stand-alone to home theater in a box, and both in our CE segment, so that's why we continue to maintain the CE segment target for the year at the same levels of flat to mid-single digits.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay, and then last, just on the broadcast segment, so you've grown about 25% in revenue in the first couple quarters, but it's 3% TV growth, plus your 8% attach rate wouldn't get you that much. So are you expecting a big decline in your revenue growth rates in the second half, or is there some Dolby volume or HDR that's contributing to some of that growth there?

MURRAY DEMO: Well, I think if you look at the guidance range, I think the growth rate equates to flat to 8% growth in the second half, which is less than what we saw in the first half, so I think that's a long way of saying, it sounds like you're looking at it right. And again, when we look at our license, we give annual licensing guidance, we saw better-than-expected growth in the second quarter. Remember, we anticipated that our second quarter might actually be our lowest growth rate quarter. Clearly that didn't turn out to be the case with strength in broadcast and mobile and gaming. And in the second half, we do see some weakness in the PC unit shipments, and when you net it all out, we still think we have a good guidance range.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay, and then last real quick. The DSOs have pushed out, is there any concern about quality or collectibility there?

MURRAY DEMO: No, we don't have any concerns on the collectibility side.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Kerry Rice with Wedbush Securities.

KERRY RICE, ANALYST, WEDBUSH SECURITIES: Thanks a lot. Just a couple questions. Tablets, you mentioned that you're on 16 tablets, are those all shipping today, and if they are, how do we think about maybe the revenue contribution in the second half, or does it actually fall, maybe, we should think about in the holiday time frame when that would actually be more of a material contributor?

And then back to the PCs, I know last quarter the enterprise was pretty strong, which offset some of the detach of the ISV. How was enterprise editions for Windows 7 going? And then based upon your earlier comments about the emerging markets versus developed, are we to take that because we're seeing some or more growth in the emerging markets, that is actually part of the slowdown in the PC units versus developed?

KEVIN YEAMAN: So why don't I let Murray start with how the tablets are factored into our guidance, and then we can take your question on the PC units.

MURRAY DEMO: In terms of tablets, as Kevin mentioned, we are quite pleased with the adoption of our technologies on tablets, but it's still early days and we are not factoring a lot in our guidance for this year, it's more of a 2012 and beyond revenue opportunity.

KERRY RICE: Okay.

KEVIN YEAMAN: And Ramzi, I don't know if you want to add any comments on what we're seeing in terms of engagement. We have a lot of engagement, looking to have more models really throughout the year, and this will all really build to contribute to our 2012.

RAMZI HAIDAMUS: We're looking at some good early signs. Of course, the earlier signs tend to be the chip manufacturers releasing ICVs with Dolby Digital Plus on established system-on-a-chip units that are appropriate for tablets and phones, and that's what we're seeing. That's the good early sign, and we're also seeing some adoption by companies globally on the tablet side for either Dolby Digital Plus and Dolby Mobile. And what Murray just described is very early signs of a trend towards these products becoming the hub of multimedia consumption. And finally, we're also looking at content providers, whether they be broadcasters or online services looking at providing rich content into those devices to be played back in high definition and surround sound.

KEVIN YEAMAN: You also asked a question about the PC unit, the mix between developed and emerging, that is one of the factors that affects our growth, our revenue growth, relative to the PC unit growth. And I think the way to think about it is that I think everybody came into the year expecting better performance in the emerging markets than the developed markets. I think leading up to our call last quarter, we recognized that that was even more of a -- that the market information was indicating even more of a shift, so that contributed to our change in guidance last quarter. So far, it continues to be weighted toward emerging markets, but it's consistent with what we were looking at when we established our range last quarter. Does that answer the question on the PC units?

KERRY RICE: Yes, and then on the enterprise side?

KEVIN YEAMAN: Oh yes, on the enterprise side. So we continue to see the strength in business PC shipments. We think that businesses are well into their hardware refresh cycle as it relates to Windows 7, and so that's one of the things that -- we had 11% sequential PC growth in the second quarter. And so we are seeing that, and most of what we've heard indicates that -- and of course, we don't get any reports on this from businesses, but we expect they are about halfway through their refresh cycle. And that's roughly what we've heard.

MURRAY DEMO: It's Murray, just one thing I was just going to say also on the tablets. As these things roll out, again, remember that our Q4 revenue is shipments that occur between April and June. So that's why, again, as you look out to when the revenue would come in for tablets, we have this 1-quarter lag in terms of when we report revenue relative to when they ship. So that transition has to be considered as you look at 2011 and 2012.

KERRY RICE: Okay. I just wanted to ask 1 quick on the enterprise. Last quarter, you had indicated that enterprise pretty much offset the decline in ISV revenue. Is that the right way to think about it for Q2? Is it surpassed that, so you're getting a little bit of a benefit now, or how do we think about enterprise as a contributor?

KEVIN YEAMAN: I don't remember that answer, or what timeframe we were referring to, but I think the way to think about it is this. You want to look at, for our revenue, it's driven by PC unit growth. And if you want to break that down further, it's the strength of the hardware refresh cycle and consumer demand. And then, again, as we've talked about, look at the mix between developed and emerging markets. And then, whatever happens with ISV is another factor, and of course, the trend this year has been to offset the growth coming from those other areas, partially or otherwise.

KERRY RICE: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: We will hear our next question from Jim Goss with Barrington Research.

JIM GOSS, ANALYST, BARRINGTON RESEARCH: I just wanted to ask a little bit more about your 3D goals and targets. Do you view the opportunity to be greater in the US markets or the international markets? I know Real-D has a strong presence with the major players domestically. Does that block you out a little bit, or are there other opportunities that you think can take you here, and then how does it work internationally?

KEVIN YEAMAN: Most of our 3D business has been internationally. And we continue to see that that's where the opportunity is, and we're getting focused on the markets where they're still in the early to middle stages of their roll out, and focusing our efforts there, and that's where we would expect to have the best opportunity in the future.

JIM GOSS: Okay, and so you're going to focus pretty much all of your attention there it sounds like --?

KEVIN YEAMAN: Most of our attention has been focused on the international markets. As you have said, a lot of the large screens are already under contract in North America, and they continue to systematically go through their roll out as we understand it and we will -- so we do have business in North America, don't get me wrong, but the bulk of our business does come from international, so that's where most of our resources are deployed.

JIM GOSS: It sounds, looking at tablets and mobile devices, you're grouping this as a combined category, they have a lot of commonality. Is that fair to think of that as almost a single category for you?

KEVIN YEAMAN: We look at them as entertainment devices, and our focus is on making sure that we're enabling content providers. And that content could be going to a tablet, it could be going to a mobile phone, it could be going to a PC, or it could be going to a television. So to us, it's really about making sure that we're doing everything it takes to ensure the best experience on a device. So at that level, we have a great position obviously in the PC market, and we have been very focused on tablet and mobile discrete markets.

I think if you look across the industry, the OEMs that serve those markets, the operating systems that serve those markets, some people might look at it more like a PC, probably more people look more mobile. We're not so focused on where to categorize it, we're looking at it as an entertainment device, and making sure that we can improve the experience as much as possible.

JIM GOSS: And finally, to the extent that Apple, I think, tends to have its own franchise, is Dolby a differentiating factor for the competing devices and that's where you'll be positioned?

KEVIN YEAMAN: Well, I think it's fair to say there's a lot of people entering the market looking to differentiate themselves in any way they can, and any time people are looking to differentiate in audio quality, that's an area where we want to help them. Again, we think we can bring a lot of value to improving the audio experience across any device over any type of content, Apple being no exception, and we're going to continue to work across the market to demonstrate that value.

JIM GOSS: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's question-and-answer portion. I would now like to turn the conference back over to Kevin Yeaman for any additional or closing remarks.

KEVIN YEAMAN: I want to thank everybody for joining today, and we look forward to seeing many of you at the upcoming investor conferences this quarter. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And once again, ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference call. We thank you all for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
dlby : Dolby Laboratories Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | i34532 : Components for Electronic Goods | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110519e75500agj
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Microvision Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
5,296 words
   PD
5 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the first-quarter 2011 MicroVision Incorporated earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Ms. Tiffany Bradford, Investor Relations. Please proceed.

   TD
TIFFANY BRADFORD, FINANCE & IR DIRECTOR, MICROVISION INC.: Thank you. Good morning everyone. I'd like to welcome you to MicroVision's first-quarter 2011 financial and operating results conference call.

In addition to myself, participants on today's call include Alexander Tokman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Jeff Wilson, Chief Financial Officer.

The information in today's conference call may include forward-looking statements, including statements regarding projections of future operations, product development, applications and benefits, availability and supply of product and key components, business partnering expectations, market opportunities and growth in demand, as well as statements containing words like believes, estimates, expects, anticipates, targets, plans, will, could, would, and other similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from the future results implied or expressed in the forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially those in the forward-looking statements are included in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the heading "Risk Factors Relating to the Company's Business" and our other reports filed with the Commission from time to time. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in circumstances or any other reason.

I now would like to turn the call over to Mr. Alexander Tokman. Alex?

ALEXANDER TOKMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, MICROVISION INC.: Thanks Tiffany. Thank you everyone for joining us this morning. The outline for today's call will be as follows. I will begin with a business update. Jeff will follow with financial results, and we will close with Q&A.

If you recall, in February, we communicated our three primary objectives for this year. The first one was to complete development of our new next generation direct green PicoP display engine for early sample availability at the end of this year and for commercialization in the first half of 2012. The second one was sell more of our award-winning products to obtain moderate growth in revenue, and final one, simplify operations to reduce the cash requirements for the year by 40%.

While I am pleased to tell you that we made solid progress in all three areas, let me highlight each one separately, starting with the direct green laser engine. Recent terrible events in Japan had a significant socioeconomic impact on citizens and many businesses in the country. Our thoughts, sympathies and prayers go to the residents of Japan and their families, specifically those who were impacted by earthquakes, tsunami or reactor spill.

Fortunately, our joint development program with Pioneer Electronics is moving forward and has not been disrupted by these events. Pioneer's headquarters are located south of the areas that were most heavily impacted by these disasters. As a matter of fact, I just visited Japan about a month ago, and Pioneer's senior management reiterated their commitment to the program schedules. Both MicroVision and Pioneer are devoting substantial resources to this effort to make sure that we are delivering it on time.

We have also visited and reviewed the direct green development programs with several suppliers. Our current assessment is that they are on track for commercial introduction between end of this year and middle of 2012. All of this is consistent with our previous expectations.

As a result of all of this, we are also on track to see the initial direct green engine samples to OEMs for evaluation and testing in the later portion of this year with the expectation that a subset of them will adopt our technology and introduce their own products about a year later. The commercial distribution of the actual engine to other parties is still planned to begin the first half of 2012, and Pioneer's aftermarket head of display is expected to be the first product that will leverage our new display engine.

Let me move to the second goal, selling award-winning products and moderately increasing revenue. I am happy to say that we were able almost to double the product revenue last quarter from the previous quarter and also from the quarter from a year ago, all thanks to the levers that were implemented in the latter portion of 2010. We hired dedicated regional staff in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific who are adding new distributors globally. We introduced also a new product in late November with better performance, more features. We are pleased to say that not only this product won awards, industry awards, it's also one of the best-selling Pico projectors on Amazon. We obviously expect to continue to introduce new accessories and new features to our products to enhance user experience and increase the addressable market for Pico projection devices.

The final goal was reducing the -- simplifying operations to reduce operating cash requirements for the year. In Q1, we reduced the operating cash requirements by 27% versus previous quarter. This reduction is well in line with our target of reducing the annual cash used in operations by 40% from 2010. We also anticipate -- and Jeff will tell you more about this -- that our cash needs will continue to decrease in future quarters as the impact of the changes that were made in earlier this year will take full effect.

A considerable contribution to the operating burn reduction this year is expected to come from leveraging new partnerships in commercializing our new products and platform. We made a good progress in negotiations with several ODM and electronics go-to-market partners to design and manufacture our future products and electronic subsystems. This is -- this will allow us to accelerate time-to-market for new products and also to reduce and reallocate internal resources onto the high ROI areas, such as display engine innovation and (inaudible) applications.

One of the most recent moves that we made, you've probably read about it, was opening an office in (inaudible) partnership in Singapore with the NTU, or Nanyang Technological University. We announced this a few weeks back, that we opened an R&D and operations center. This is a strategic deal for us as it allowed us to achieve several important objectives. First of all, it's about technical innovation. The NTU is the world's largest technical university by a population with spreads of sciences and technologies. This relationship has opened the door to a wide range of technical resources in the areas of photonics, laser sciences, micro electronics, materials sciences and nanotechnologies. Our physical presence on campus will allow us to work side-by-side with the outstanding faculty and student body. We believe this will lead to new innovative ideas and new applications that will leverage our proprietary and disruptive technology.

Second, it's about cost efficiencies and synergies. The new center serves as a cost-effective means for us to expand our research and development initiatives outside of Redmond. Additionally, Singapore government offers attractive financial incentives for new disruptive technologies that are cultivated in Singapore, which range from R&D subsidies to tax breaks.

Finally, it's about location. Singapore is centrally located and allows us to better support our manufacturing partners, better support our customers. I don't know if you know this, but 40% of global mobility market is in Asia and puts us closer.

At this point, I will let just to provide you with financial results.

JEFF WILSON, CFO, MICROVISION INC.: I'd like to start the financial discussion with some comments regarding this morning's announcement on our new equity facility with Azimuth. As you may know, we entered a similar facility in August of last year. It has proved to be a cost-effective method for raising capital, and we've raised about $25.5 million today using the facility. We have about 2.6 million shares remaining under the 2010 facility. We believe this is a good time to enter into a new facility to keep our financing options open for future cash needs.

Moving to the financial update for the first quarter, as Alex discussed, we've made significant progress on our goals of increasing sales of our PicoP-based products and reducing our cash used in operations significantly compared to last year. I'll go over some of the details of our revenue, operating and net income, and finally our cash position.

During the first quarter, revenue increased to $1.1 million compared to $668,000 for the same period a year ago. Product revenue increased to $886,000, more than double from the fourth quarter of last year. We are continuing to expand our distribution channels and believe we are well positioned to reach our full-year objective of a moderate revenue increase over 2010.

Our operating loss was $9 million for the first quarter, compared to $9.5 million for the same period last year. As you will recall, we took a number of steps in late 2010 and early 2011 to reduce our operating costs. These steps included reducing our work force and reducing our investment into synthetic green laser platforms. As a result of these actions, we've reduced our operating expenses by 12% in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of last year. We expect the full impact of these actions will result in greater reductions in the future quarters of 2011.

Our net loss for the quarter was flat at $9 million, or $0.09 a share, compared to $9.1 million or $0.10 a share the same period last year.

We ended the quarter with a backlog of $1.5 million. As you'll recall, in 2010, MemoryKick, also known as NionCom, placed orders totaling $11.9 million for PicoP display engines that it plans to embed into a high-end media player. There are recent discussions with MemoryKick. We have learned they have again delayed the launch of their product into the second half of 2011. This has introduced additional uncertainty about the commercialization ramp of their high-end media player. Consequently, we have removed these orders from our backlog until more information regarding the timing and quantity of engine deliveries can be established. As we discussed in February, we are repurposing the inventory for repurchase to fulfill this order for future [Shutteby] (inaudible) orders.

Also as we discussed on our previous call, we do not include the revenue from this order in our 2011 revenue forecasts. So with this adjustment, we still expect a moderate increase in our revenue for the year.

Our cash used in operations for the first quarter was $8.1 million, compared to $11.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. This represents a reduction of 27% and is in line with our overall goal of reducing cash used in operations by 40% for the full year. We ended the quarter with $14.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, which includes $3.1 million raised during the first quarter through our 2010 equity financing facility.

In summary, we are tracking to our plans for 2011 of moderate revenue growth and a 40% reduction in cash usage, while maintaining our progress on the next-generation PicoP engine development. With that, I'd like to open the call for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Richard Shannon, Northland Capital Markets.

RICHARD SHANNON, ANALYST, NORTHLAND SECURITIES: I guess my first question is regarding your new distribution and sales strategy. It looks like you had some nice progress here in the first quarter. I'm wondering if you could discuss any of the metrics to track progress going forward. I think you talked about a number of new distribution channels. Can you quantify that and maybe give us a goal of what you'd like to get to throughout the rest of the year to get to your sales forecast goal for the year, and any other dynamic you think will improve that?

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: There are really two levers that we'll dial up this year to get moderate growth on revenue. First one, like you said, increasing our presence globally by having a not only local presence that develops the strategic support for the local distributors, but also improving our marketing and sales tools to ensure that everybody realize the benefit and the value of the product.

The second lever is innovation. So we are going to introduce enhancements throughout the year and enhance our existing product portfolio by adding new features that will allow us to reach out to a larger addressable market beyond Apple and beyond laptops, as well as introducing certain accessories to facilitate use models.

We're trying to boost the concept of entertainment on the go, business on the go. To do this, we were creating a variety of tools to make, for example playing gaming on a mobile device is easier to facilitate business applications.

The final variable that will help us to do this really is outside of our direct control, and it's the evolution of the ecosystem. To give you an example, just last year, there were very few devices that were able to output video out to be connected to the external projectors. Apple was only one of the very few OEMs who actually allowed to do this. This year, the ecosystem is changing and there is an onslaught of new tablets and new smartphones that actually output video out via HDMI or other channels. We are adapting to this development and we expect to address this very shortly.

RICHARD SHANNON: Okay. Maybe a follow-on to that -- you specifically mentioned Apple. I think you've talked about regaining certification there. Do you have any idea how much of your current SHOWWX products sales are driven by people -- customers desiring the Apple certification and using related Apple products?

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: I don't -- it's a very good question because a lot of volume goes through our distributors not (inaudible) so we only have -- as you recall, we have a direct channel and we have a distribution channel. Most of the volume is going through the distribution channel, so we don't have direct feedback from the users. But if we use the direct as an example, I think that I would say majority, three-quarters of the users today would be someone with iPad, iPhone or iPod Touch rather than laptop usage.

RICHARD SHANNON: Great. Next question I think probably also for you Alex. You've talked a lot about your relationship with Pioneer, specifically in the automotive heads-up display. I'm wondering if you could give us a little bit more of an update on your conversations with partners in other end markets. Obviously, everyone is interested about the smartphone and related mobile products market, [but] any other markets in which conversations have advanced in. What stages are we at? When do you see a potential for future progress and potential announcements of any said partners?

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: These developments are also progressing. We have been in close contact with quite a large number of cell phone manufacturers, carriers, and consumer electronics players. And so we know -- they know us and we know them pretty well over the past few years. We do have good relationships.

One of the things that we were challenged today and in the past, as you know, with Percival was availability of quantities of units base because they were limited by the synthetic green lasers and finally by the cost of the device, because synthetic green laser is a very expensive device. They are right now anxiously awaiting for us to complete the development with Pioneer, get the initial samples out sometimes in the fourth quarter of this year to start testing, evaluating, and confirming all of the expectations that they have of this technology. They express -- everybody expressed the desire to put something inside their device that is focus-free, easy to use, and something that doesn't consume a lot of power. We believe we're going to have the solution to address this. Direct green gives us not only ability to grow volume, but also takes care of cost constraints that we are experiencing today with synthetic green engine. So we are -- I would say we are on track and right now people simply anxiously awaiting for us to complete the development, give them the early samples so they can start making decisions for their future product lines.

RICHARD SHANNON: Okay, great. Then one last question for me on financials. Jeff, any way you can quantify what your target OpEx is ending the year? Obviously, you talked about reducing the OpEx. What kind of a number we should think about by the end of 2011?

JEFF WILSON: Sure. So if we go back I think in the first quarter ,I think we said we were targeting 20%, 25% overall reductions in operating expense. I think we are still tracking to that expectation.

RICHARD SHANNON: Great. Thanks a lot guys. I'll jump out of line.

OPERATOR: Michael Tu, Oppenheimer.

MICHAEL TU, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks for taking my question. Did you have any significant inventory write-down in the quarter?

JEFF WILSON: We had a moderate inventory write-down for the quarter. I think we're in the $400,000 range mostly on new material that was still coming in on noncancelable POs, writing that down to (inaudible) cost of market, but nothing like we've had in the prior quarters.

MICHAEL TU: Okay. Going forward, I don't suppose that will be much of an impact?

JEFF WILSON: No. I would not expect it to be.

MICHAEL TU: Okay. In terms of the backlog, do you think you could provide any more color or comfort, like how confident or how non-confident are you guys on this product being launched? Why is being delayed for the [fair] time?

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: That's a great question. As Jeff mentioned, we had recent communication with the executives from MemoryKick, and they communicated there's some difficulties with their initially planned Q2 launch of the media product. They're now guiding us to the second half of 2011. Based on all the information we had, we decided basically clean slate, and once they come back to us with realized schedules and realized volumes, we will be able to reinstate something. But again, it's going to be dependent based on their ability to complete the program.

What's causing the delays? There are a variety of reasons. Some of them were technical. Some of it is related to product features, functionalities, etc. Obviously, we don't have all the details, and you'd probably have to ask directly MemoryKick what is (inaudible).

MICHAEL TU: Okay. So did you already purchase any inventory for that (multiple speakers)?

JEFF WILSON: Yes, so just to go back, if you go -- originally this (inaudible) scheduled for delivery in Q3 and Q4 of last year. So the ramp in inventory in the middle part of 2010 and late -- or middle to late 2010 was largely related to being prepared to deliver this order. As we talked about at the end of the year, we were able to take that inventory, since it is at the component level, and repurpose it for the SHOWWX+. So that process was already in play.

MICHAEL TU: Okay, that's good to hear. And just a real quick housekeeping question. What was your average diluted shares in the fourth quarter?

JEFF WILSON: At the fourth quarter? It's approximately 100 million shares. I'll get you an exact -- I'll have to get you an exact number. Shares outstanding at the fourth quarter was 102 million shares was outstanding. The average number -- I'd have to get to the K to get that, but it was pretty close to the 102 million.

MICHAEL TU: That's fine. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Diane Daggatt, McAdams Wright Ragen.

DIANE DAGGATT, ANALYST, MCADAMS WRIGHT RAGEN: Good morning. Two questions. First, can you talk about the new $40 million facility with [Us News]? Are there certain share parameters and price limits? Then second, I was wondering about OSRAM. It's been in the news that Siemens is starting some of its legging divisions and mentions OSRAM lighting. So I'm wondering if OSRAM is still going to be one of your suppliers. Thank you.

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: I'll take the second one and Jeff will come back with facility. Fundamentally, yes. So Siemens announced that they want to spin out OSRAM semiconductors as an independent entity. I think -- first of all, it should not affect anything that we develop with OSRAM. This (inaudible). They believe that it could be a large standalone company that would compete against GEs and Philips, and I think that's why they are doing it. So no changes as far as we're concerned, and I think that move will probably give OSRAM a little more freedom from being independent and be more agile.

DIANE DAGGATT: Do you know the timing?

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: We don't know the timing.

JEFF WILSON: Then going back to the Azimuth facility, it's very -- in fact, it's very, very similar to the one we did in August. If you'll recall, that one has a pricing table, so there's different pricings at which we can do drawdowns and different amounts that we can do at each one of those price levels. So there's a high degree of flexibility on the amount and the timing of when we can raise capital.

DIANE DAGGATT: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Randy Hough, ProEquities (technical difficulty).

RANDY HOUGH, ANALYST, PROEQUITIES: Good morning fellas. Thanks for taking my question. A couple of questions, Alex. A couple of comments that were mentioned I think on the first call of the year were related to of course reducing the operating expenses and looking at ways to streamline and make more efficient the business. I noticed on your website that you have a job application for a business development officer. Could you give us an update on how that's proceeding and what the logic was behind needing that person? I think is probably obvious, but I'd like to hear from you, and when that might be completed.

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: Okay. Let me make sure I captured everything. So first a question on the VP of Business Development, the second question about operating (inaudible)?

RANDY HOUGH: No, it really was one question -- what the logic was behind hiring the VP of Product Development and how you see that fitting in and helping your goal to streamline the Company and transfer to a more, you know, licensing and royalty kind of platform.

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: Got it. First of all, our two core competencies we're going to cultivate and what I believe would make us strong and allow for growth that we all expect is the technical innovation and skills in making deals with the OEM customers as we evolve by constantly rewriting what we have and where we need to improve, so it's almost a dynamic nature. We have been upgrading throughout since 2006. Sometimes as the Company goes through different stages, you have to continuously, on an annual basis (inaudible) do you have the right skill and talent to do what you need to do in the next three, four years. So we are kind of looking -- I am looking ahead this is why we are looking for some strong individual that will come from the industry, who has the necessary relationships, contacts to be very effective for the next five years.

In terms of how does this -- is this in conflict with our goal of reducing operating expenses? This position was budgeted last year for the operating plan for this year, so it's included in the assumption that we may reduce the operating cash requirements by 40%.

RANDY HOUGH: Great. One of the product ideas that we had talked about in the past, Alex, was application to eyeglasses, which seems to be an exciting opportunity, given the trends in projecting content in a convenient manner to the viewer. Can you give -- I know that of the million things you're dealing with, it might seem a bit as an outlier, but can you give us any idea of what the thinking is in the consumer electronics world about the potential for that market?

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: Everybody wants to see. To be honest with you, I'm going to be blunt. I came to MicroVision because I thought this was the coolest, the most radical application that would fundamentally change how people view and share information. So, that was one of the attraction points for me. What we learned is that it's the most complex product to get to market, primarily because not only it requires a cost effective, low-power, low-weight engine which is what we're developing right now with Pioneer, but also, most importantly, you need to have the right content that would be provided by the carriers and the content providers to facilitate the use of application. So as a result, we are actually working with most well-known content providers today on putting together ecosystem such that this product could be released into market.

So again, if you look at the three opportunities, primary opportunities we are pursuing, the Pico projection, automotive head-up displays and eyewear, eyewear is the most complex. Pico projection, believe it or not, is the simplest one because it requires cost-effective, low-power, low-volume engine. When you move to head-up display, you need to add additional special optics for automobiles that we already have developed and are working with automotive makers. When you get to eyewear, which is the third step, now you need the engine, the optics, and then you need the content. That piece is outside of our control, so we are working with likes Googles and Microsofts who develop an ecosystem from special content that could be seen -- could be viewed in a see-through format. That is why this activity will take a little longer than the first two, primarily because the ecosystem has to be in place to take advantage of it.

RANDY HOUGH: Great answer. I was glad to hear that's still exciting in the market. And last question, give us a quick overview, if you would, Alex, of when you might see some relief on the revenue side. Not to hold you at any specific revenue forecast or that sort of thing, but we do have a transitional year here it seems to me, 2011, but not a real good feel about when the top line might start to ramp, given the availability of direct green lasers in 2012. Put our hearts at ease here a little bit if you would, and give us some kind of a back-of-the-envelope idea of what's happening over the next two years.

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: That's a fair question. This year, it's moderate revenue growth from the existing products based on synthetic green platform. Next year introducing the commercial version of the next generation direct green engine, and start putting it in somebody else's products. So we start [to] obviously with Pioneer when are they going to introduce their first head-up display in 2012. Then the goal is that what we produce at the end of this year would be seeded to a multitude of OEMs ranging from cell phone manufacturers to carriers to just regular consumer electronics players and [subset] of this decide to take our technology and put it inside their product, we're going to have exciting end of 2012 and 2013.

RANDY HOUGH: Great, fair enough. Good luck.

OPERATOR: This concludes the Q&A session for today. I would now like turn the call back over to Alexander Tokman for any closing remarks.

ALEXANDER TOKMAN: I would like to close this call with three takeaways for you. First of all, hopefully you've seen that we are making visible progress on strategic items as well as on technical items. The next generation direct green engine is maturing per plan. We've doubled the product revenue from previous quarter and also year-over-year. We reduced the operating cash burn by 27%. Our goal is to continue this trend into the second quarter. For the first time in history of the Company, believe it or not, we are not doing it alone. Pioneer, [Volen], now NTU, these are the institutions who put effort and resources to help us to get to market. We are working to expand this list later this year to include several new go-to-market enablers of our disruptive technology.

Finally, we implemented what we believe a very robust funding mechanism to raise additional cash when necessary. It offers lower cost of money and is less dilutive to the shareholders than the alternatives available today, but as we always tell you, we are evaluating options continuously, and we will take whatever we think is the best, in the best interest of you and us.

At this point, I want to thank you for joining us today, and look forward to providing you with more positive news as we progress throughout this year. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrvsn : Microvision Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i951 : Health Care | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c22 : New Products/Services | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c26 : Product Safety | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
singp : Singapore | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110519e755006v9
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Glu Mobile Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,129 words
   PD
3 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good afternoon. My name is Salema, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Glu Mobile first quarter 2011 earnings results conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I will not turn today's conference call over to the VP of Finance, Mr. Greg Cannon. Please go ahead, sir.

GREG CANNON, VP FINANCE, GLU MOBILE, INC.: Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on the Glu Mobile first quarter 2011 financial results conference call. This is Greg Cannon, VP Finance from Glu Mobile. On the call today, we have CEO Niccolo de Masi, and CFO Eric Ludwig.

During the course of this call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of the company. Generally, these statements are identified by the use of the words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, and other words that denote future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We caution you to consider the important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in the press release and in this conference call. These risk factors are described in our press release and are more fully detailed under the caption Risk Factors in the form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 21st, 2011.

During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP measures exclude the change in deferred revenues and royalties, amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation charges, restructuring charges, and foreign currency gains and losses primarily related to revaluation of assets and liabilities. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from, a substitute for, or superior to our GAAP results, and we encourage investors to consider all measures before taking an investment decision.

For complete information regarding our non-GAAP financial information, the most directly comparable GAAP measures, a quantitative reconciliation of those figures, please refer to today's press release regarding our first quarter results. The press release also has been furnished to the SEC as a part of a form 8-K.

In addition, please note that the date of this conference call is May 3rd, 2011, and any forward-looking statements that we may make today are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable as of this date. We undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of future events.

Lastly, this conference call is the property of Glu Mobile and any recording, reproduction, or rebroadcast of this conference call without the expressed written permission of Glu is strictly prohibited.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Niccolo. Niccolo.

NICCOLO DE MASI, CEO, GLU MOBILE, INC.: Good afternoon, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I am pleased to report that in Q1 we advanced our early momentum in 3D social mobile gaming. Six freemium titles went live in the first four months of the year, four of which have seen significant success. In addition, we were successful in maintaining Gun Bros Performance through significant and monthly updates.

Finally, we demonstrated the persistent traction of a number of our freemium titles and launched our most successful casual-themed property to date.

During the first quarter. Our total non-GAAP Smartphone revenues grew by 98% between Q4 2010 and Q1 2011, to reach $6.7 million. Non-GAAP operating loss was $0.1 million, resulting in a closing cash balance of $24.4 million, which was above our expectations.

Our ability to attract and retain talent continues to improve, aided by our clear ability to capitalize on our 3D expertise and early leadership of the freemium action-adventure genres. In the casual genre, we received meaningful promotion by Apple for our Bug Village title, and it is already performing well. We believe Bug Village to be the first 3D resource management title on Smartphones and tablets.

Both Contract Killer and Big Time Gangsta have been strong titles and added to the action adventure following. Amongst consumers, we began to build last quarter with Gun Bros and Deer Hunter Challenge. Contract Killer reached top three in the free apps chart and top 13 grossing, a stronger relative performance than Gun Bros achieved after its release in Q4. Big Time Gangsta continues to consolidate and improve its position in top free and top grossing.

Finally, Men VS Machines went live a couple weeks ago, has been featured by Apple is on track to be a solid performer. We believe the tangible acceleration in hardware power, following Moore's Law pretty much favors Glu with our ability to deliver on ever higher 3D production values.

The iPad 2's new chip set and next generation of the iPhone will allow Glu to work with Apple to continue to deliver differentiated titles.

Our relationships with the hardware ecosystem have been invigorated through the qualify of our Q4 2010 and Q1 2011 titles. As an example of this, Gun Bros has been a marquee worldwide partner for Sony Ericsson's Xperia Play, nicknamed the PlayStation phone by the press, and running on Android. You can enjoy one of Xperia's TV advertising spots featuring Gun Bros at glu.com\investors.

Moving on to Android. Glu's relationship with Google has strengthened significantly in Q1. We were responsible for three of the first six titles within that purchase functionality at launch in late March, along with supporting Honeycomb, Android's operating system for its tablets.

Glu has also had almost all of our Android titles featured, on more than one occasion in the case of Gun Bros. Glu also had a large market share at the launch of Amazon's new Android ecommerce site. While it's currently still trailing iOS in total revenue, the Android ecosystem has made significant strides to begin closing this gap.

Our Glu Partners Program, which we kicked off last quarter, has progressed to plan, and today we discuss two very significant deals. The first is with celebrated author James Frey and his publishing company, Full Fathom Five. Mr. Frey's firm has been at the forefront of digital publishing. As a Glu partner, he will be collaborating with us to co-create and jointly exploit four transmedia properties over the next 24 months.

We believe that Glu and Full Fathom Five will be the first companies collaborating to engender fresh titles for simultaneous release, as both 3D social mobile games and novels. All four collaborations will be designed with the long-term potential for film and television exploitation. Success, which Mr. Frey has already had with one of his first Full Fathom Five novels, I Am Number Four.

Our second significant Glu partners deal is with Christopher Locke and his new studio, Blammo Games. Many of you will not know Mr. Locke by name, however, he was one of the creators, as well as producer of several recent freemium top-ten grossing iOS titles including Smurfs Village and Zombie CafÃ© Glu and Blammo Games will partner to bring two titles to market over the next 12 months.

We are very excited to be working with both Mr. Locke and Mr. Frey and look forward to the positive impact these partnerships will bring to Glu over the longer term.

In addition to supporting and growing Gun Bros, Contract Killer, Big Time Gangsta, and Bug Village, launching over the spring and summer period will be approximately seven new titles, the first five of which we are pleased to announce today as [Star Blitz, Eternity Warriors, Space City].

We'll also be releasing Contract Killer, Big Time Gangsta, and Bug Village on Android throughout the month of May. Over time, as we create and [prove out] more franchises, an ever larger portion of our resources will be devoted to maintaining and building each franchise audience, retention, virility, and monetization.

Improving retention and depth of social functionality in both existing and new titles are key objectives for us throughout the remainder of the year.

Apple's app store ranking algorithm and offer monetization have both recently been in the online press. We have an active dialog with Apple and fully support their efforts to evolve the iOS ecosystem to promote its long-term success for both consumers and developers.

Our guidance for Q2 reflects our most up-to-date information on any impact from the evolution of Apple's policies. As you will hear, our guidance is conservative. This is due to the continued runoff of the feature phone business as well as present uncertainty around offer monetization which may constrain near-term growth and iOS revenues.

The GLU team continues to build momentum and we have made good progress in the first quarter towards our primary 2011 goals. We remain on track for our Smartphone revenues to overtake feature phone revenues this year.

I thank my colleagues for their efforts and our shareholders for their support as we together execute our vision to become the world's leading 3D social mobile games company.

I now hand you over to Eric Ludwig for more analysis on our financial results and operating metrics.

ERIC LUDWIG, CFO, GLU MOBILE, INC.: Great. Thank you Niccolo. I am pleased to report that we have a strong start to the year, achieving impressive results during the first quarter of 2011, which exceeded our expectations across all operating metrics.

First let me summarize some of our key financial highlights for Q1. Total non-GAAP Smartphone revenue of $6.7 million was up 98% quarter over quarter. Non-GAAP freemium Smartphone revenue, which consists of micro-transactions, in-game adds and offers, accounted for 69% of our total non-GAAP Smartphone revenue, up from 38% in the fourth quarter of 2010.

Original IP accounted for 35% of overall non-GAAP revenues, which resulted in improved gross margins. In addition, original IP represented 48% of our total non-GAAP Smartphone revenues and reflects our shift to original titles. Cash burn from operations of $2.1 million was better than expectations.

Our growth in Smartphone revenues reflects the overall strength of our freemium strategy, including continued traction on Gun Bros and Deer Hunter Challenger and the launch of Contract Killer and Big Time Gangsta at the end of the quarter.

We are very pleased with our ability to execute our business plan. And before I go into all the financial details, I would like to take a moment to drill down on the first quarter revenues and highlight how we delivered against our guidance.

Total non-GAAP revenue for the first quarter was $17.2 million, which is above guidance of $14 to $14.5 million, up 11% on a quarter-over-quarter basis, and down slightly from the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP Smartphone revenues grew 98% quarter over quarter to $6.7 million, which was above our guidance of $4 million to $4.4 million.

I am very encouraged by the growth trends in our non-GAAP Smartphone revenue, as such revenue is a total -- percent of total non-GAAP revenues increased to 39% in the first quarter of 2011, sequentially up from 22% in the fourth quarter 2010, and up from 12% in the year-ago quarter. Our non-GAAP freemium Smartphone revenues increased 263% on a quarter-over-quarter basis, and 3,092% on a year-over-year basis.

Freemium revenue accounted for 69% of our total non-GAAP Smartphone revenues in the first quarter of 2011. Included in our non-GAAP results are $2.2 million of revenues from offers on the Apple platform, which people have mentioned have been the subject of some uncertainty in recent weeks. As a result, we still would have exceeded the high end of our non-GAAP Smartphone guidance even excluding such offer revenues altogether from our results.

I was also very pleased with the performance on Gun Bros this quarter, as this is our overall number one title generating $2.3 million in non-GAAP revenues, or 30% of the total. This title launched at the end of October 2010, and generated $610,000 in non-GAAP revenues in that two-month time period, which equated to approximately $0.06 per daily active user per day. During the first quarter of 2011, we were able to increase that monetization to $0.12 per daily active user on the 215,000 daily active Gun Bros users for the first quarter.

I believe this data highlights what the revenue curve and lifecycle looks like for a successful freemium title.

In additional, original IP titles accounted for 35% of non-GAAP revenues, up from 26% in the first quarter of 2010, and 20% during the same period last year. The significant increase reflects the impact of new original freemium titles, continued strong performance of existing titles, along with the ongoing de-emphasis on the feature phone business. We expect this increasing trend in original IP to continue, as over 80% of our anticipated title launches in 2011 are original IP.

In regards to new and total installs of our titles, as of March 31st, 2011, we had 70.2 million total cumulative installs on the Apple and Android platforms and social networking websites, including Facebook, and this sequentially increased by approximately 20 million new installs during the first quarter. The increase is due to the continued popularity of Gun Bros, WSOP, Deer Hunter Challenger, in addition to the last March launches of Contract Killer and Big Time Gangsta.

During the first quarter of 2011, we had 755,000 in-app purchase-billable events which was an increase from 715,000 in the fourth quarter of 2010. And the average revenue per in-app purchase transaction increased from $1.80 to $2.31 due mainly to higher price points per our virtual goods.

In our last earnings call, we mentioned that we had some lost NLS data in December 2010, due to certain [scaling] issues in our infrastructure, which we believe suppressed our December 2010 MAU and DAU by potentially up to 15%.

At the end of March 2011, we launched Contract Killer and Big Time Gangsta, and these successful launches generated more product event data than our systems could collect. As a result, we experienced a similar issue of lost data in MAU and DAU. The MAU and DAU that we reported for March 2011, are a combination of our own data for legacy titles, plus for the new titles where Tapjoy SDK was implemented, [we are] utilizing their information.

Lastly, the MAU and DAU from March 2011 also includes information for our Gun Bros Facebook title as reported by appdata.com.

On a go-forward basis, we are adding additional computing capacity to process the larger volumes of data we have been experiencing, as well as we're additionally implementing a third-part NLS tracking tool in our new title starting with the current quarter.

Looking at our MAU and DAU for the month of March 2011, we had $11.9 million MAU, down slightly from the adjusted December 2010 MAU of $12 million. Our daily active users for the month of March 2011, was 953,000 across Apple, Android, and Facebook, essentially flat from the updated December 2010 figure of 944,000.

It is unsurprising that our MAU and DAU were essentially flat, given that our first quarter new title launches did not occur until the end of March 2011, and do not contribute substantially to these figures. In addition, we remind you that we experienced lost data in both December 2010 and March 2011, which impacts the precision of this data.

Turning to our feature phone business, similar to the fourth quarter of 2010, this business performed better than we expected, despite declining 14% over the prior quarter, and 32% over the first quarter a year ago, both on a non-GAAP basis.

We anticipate the year-over-year rate of decline to accelerate as we focus our resources solely on Smartphones, and I'll provide additional details when I discuss our second quarter guidance in a moment.

I want to walk through -- I will now walk through our operating results for the first quarter of 2011, followed by a review of our outlook for the second quarter ending June 30th, 2011.

During the first quarter of 2011, non-GAAP gross margin was 78%, which is up from 73% a year ago, and up slightly from 77% non-GAAP gross margin in the fourth quarter of 2010. The growth in revenues that we generated from original IP and a $300,000 reversal of previously impaired royalties led to the increase in our non-GAAP gross margins.

Total non-GAAP operating expenses for the first quarter of 2011 were $13.5 million, up a little over 1% from $13.3 million during the fourth quarter 2010. This is lower than our guidance of $14.2 million, primarily due to the combination of delayed hiring and other cost savings during the quarter.

The combination of the better-than-expected revenues and OpEx coming in lower than expected, resulted in a non-GAAP loss from operations for the quarter of $106,000, which was well above our guidance of a loss of between $3.1 million and $3.5 million.

Our non-GAAP net loss of $898,000, or a loss of $0.02 per basic share exceeded our guidance of a loss of $0.07 per basic share.

A full reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures was included in the press release we issued today.

Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents were $24.4 million as of March 31st, 2011, up from $12.9 million at December 31st, 2010. During Q1, we used $2.1 million of cash from operations, used $478,000 for CapEx, repaid the remaining $2.3 million on our line of credit, and paid $698,000 in taxes on January 1st, related to the promissory notes held by the former [MIG] shareholders that were repaid in the fourth quarter of 2010.

These cash out flows were offset by the $15.9 million in net proceeds received from the January 2011 common stock offering, and $1.1 million in warrant and option exercises and ESPP purchases.

So in summary, the first quarter was a strong start to the year for GLU. We are pleased with our execution, which has enabled us to exceed expectations across all of our operating metrics. But we're not satisfied as work still remains.

Now let's review our guidance. For the second quarter of 2011, we currently expect non-GAAP revenue to be in the range of $15 million to $16.5 million, which includes $7.25 million to $8.25 million in non-GAAP Smartphone revenues or a sequential increase of 7%, at the low end of Smartphone guidance, to 22% growth at the high end.

Two items that I'd like to point out with regards to our guidance being down in a quarter-over-quarter non-GAAP basis, first that we are forecasting an aggressive sequential decline in feature phone revenues due to a lack of [original] titles being shipped for this channel.

Secondly, despite the sequential Smartphone revenue growth embedded in our guidance, I would point out that the Smartphone revenue guidance reflects a conservative view of the unfolding situation in the Apple ecosystem in regards to offer revenue. Specifically, included in our Q2 2011 guidance, is approximately $2.8 million of offer revenue, over half of which has already been transacted as of this date, and the balance to be recognized over the next two months of the quarter, though at smaller levels due to the changes we are expecting on this monetization channel.

I would point out that at the low end of the guidance feature phone revenues are larger than Smartphone revenue. At the high end, we are forecasting that they each represent 50% of the total.

We aren't providing guidance for the second half of 2011 at this point. But I will mention that on iOS we may need to replace the offer or the revenues with potentially lower performing advertising inventory. Depending on how this -- the industry evolves, this could constrain iOS revenue growth in the second half of the year.

We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 80%, and our non-GAAP OpEx for Q2 2011 to be approximately $14.5 million, which is up sequentially by approximately $1 million, as we are increasing our spending on external development projects under our Glu Partners program. Non-GAAP operating loss is expected to range from a loss of $1.3 million to $2.5 million.

We expect income tax for the second quarter of 2011 to be approximately $600,000, and non-GAAP net loss expected to be a loss between $1.9 million to $3.1 million, or a loss of between $0.04 and $0.06 per basic share.

Starting this quarter, we are not going to specifically provide revenue and EPS guidance on a GAAP basis.

Excluded for our non-GAAP figures that I just provided are $661,000 of amortization intangibles in cost of sales, and $559,000 in stock-based compensation.

Weighted average common shares outstanding for the second quarter of 2011 are expected to be approximately 53.9 million basic and 60.8 million diluted, which are up from Q1 due to the full-quarter effect of the January 2011 fund raise, the exercise of 500,000 warrant shares in March, and the further dilutive effect on the remaining warrants and options due to the higher stock price since last quarter.

We now anticipate ending 2011 with over $18 million of net cash, up from last quarter's guidance of $15 million, which includes the lower cash burn in Q1.

With that, let me turn the call over to the Operator for any questions. Operator? Hello, operator?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) We'll pause for just a moment. Your first question comes from

Darren Aftahi. Hi, guys. Nice quarter. Just a couple things. Niccolo, one, when you're reading off the kind of Q2 title schedule, your voice was going in and out. If you could repeat that, the number, the names of the titles, I think it would be helpful for everybody on the call.

And then maybe if you could talk a little bit in terms of what you kind of see long term with this [lead gen] potential issue. It looks like that was 46, 47 percent of revenue in 1Q. It looks like you got into a much lower number conservatively in 2Q. Just give us some color in terms of what you think the breakdown of virtual goods and advertising is kind of longer term. And how critical of an issue offers are to kind of the cross-sell on your platform.

NICCOLO DE MASI: Sure. So on the titles we said there were approximately seven coming in the spring and summer time period. The names of them were Star Blitz, Circus City, Eternity Warriors, Space City, and Africa. So it's, again, a mix of casual and more action-adventure themes.

Much more of our time, Darren, as we alluded to is going to increasingly -- extending increasing [depths] of existing franchises. And you'll see that as an enduring theme for us as we look to support the most persistent titles.

On the offer front, as you called it, lead gen, we are certainly a company which is ultimately positioned regardless of where the Apple policies will ever evolve to. And we're not only well positioned because we, of course, have the opportunity as well as options of moving resources on the platform such as Android and Windows Phone 7 but mostly because of our scale. It allows not only more flexibility with regards to what kinds of advertising units we hook in with, but also, of course, what kinds of advertising networks and partners we work with.

Aside from, of course, the fact that we have a lot of our own internal cross promotion opportunities, given the audience, we've been building, and programs like the Glu Games Network, which we launched on last quarter's earnings call.

So situation is still unfolding. There is not perfect clarity on where a line is or isn't with regards to offer- based monetization and advertising mechanisms. The one thing, however, that Glu's very confident on is that chances of, there always being a new-add unit which steps into the fold is very, very high. There's no doubt that Apple's been a leader with regards to freemium monetization. They were the first company that allowed in-app purchase and they were also the first company allowing CPI-based, cost-per-install advertising.

And there's a myriad of innovators in and around the space looking to of course have a chance to build their own ad unit into some sort of level of success.

As with Glu in 2010, in 2011 we continue to experiment with monetization models. In the long run, I've always said that I expect CPM-based models, cost-per-impression to be something that becomes a larger and larger fraction of revenues for us. And I think that what we're going to see unfold, frankly, year-after-year will be continued maturation of how direct and incentivized or not advertising can be.

There has been experiments around everything from video pre-rolls through to engagement-based models over the past years. And I think you'll see different weightings of these mechanisms into the future. But nevertheless, we're extremely confident that advertising in one mechanism or another is going to be as, if not a larger component of freemium revenues over the long term.

DARREN AFTAHI, ANALYST: Great. And then just one follow-up - I don't know if you gave it, of the call it roughly 2.5 million in non-offer, non-GAAP Smartphone revenue -- or freemium revenue, excuse me, what was the breakdown between advertising and in-app purchase?

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes. Darren, this is Eric. It was virtually all from in-app purchases.

DARREN AFTAHI: Okay. Great. Thank you.

ERIC LUDWIG: No problem. Thanks, Darren.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Adam Krejcik of Roth Capital Partners.

ADAM KREJCIK, ANALYST, ROTH CAPITAL PARTNERS: Hi, guys. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my call. Just to follow up on the incentivization. I guess just can you kind of fill us in, any reason or kind of insight on why Apple might be going down this path? Is it because there has to do with the ranking in the chart system and trying to make it more democratic? Or just curious what your thoughts are there. And then how you guys, in fact, since this has been announced tried to -- I mean, how you have been able to release any new updates to your existing games with -- that still use the offer or incentivization scheme?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Okay. So let me take the first part of that. To begin with, Apple has, I think is very much still working through precisely which elements they have issues with [of offer] monetizations as it pertains to potentially impacting rankings or manipulating rankings, I believe is the clause that's been cited in the online press. That's obviously a broad, [probably] a broad clause with regards to ranking manipulation.

It's been previously enacted and applied to things like, I think some publishers manufacturing rating for their title.

So the spirit of that clause obviously includes things like [extents] of influence over the ranking system, which, as far as most of you are aware, is still based largely on download numbers. As such, any mechanism which impinges on that in large volumes to the extent that you're able to actually rank an application by virtue of the direct marketing per se, is something which they're taking a look at.

So, I would expect that to be a constantly evolving sort of line, so-to-speak between what is an advertising mechanism which is too aggressive and/or allows developers to rank something too easily based on advertising as opposed to product quality alone.

That having been said, Glu is very pleased with the fact that this, of course, will put more distance between companies such as ourselves that focus on quality over companies who produce lower production value titles but been turning their dollars -- turning their dollars more towards marketing as opposed to increasing the consumer's experience and engagement.

So I mean Glu's focus on 3D, focus on higher production values all plays well to our ability to do well as we always have in the charts based on product quality alone.

So our perspective on this is that it's, of course, really more long-term good news than neutral news with regards to our ranking position and ranking ability. With regards to monetization, I expect that we will see that offers will certainly be a lower fraction of the overall ad mix. Whether or not that actual fraction needs to be replaced entirely or replaced substantively is certainly not perfectly clear at the moment, although I think we believe that certainly it makes sense for us and other publishers to be looking for ad mechanisms, which have much less or no, frankly, reliance around incentivizing and install, as that seems to be wrapped up in this policy application, which they are obviously having a look at over the past few weeks and, indeed, probably will continue to do so over the coming few weeks.

On your last question, which was around Glu having more titles come out with offers and/or updates, we certainly are working closely with Apple on submissions and at the moment we are -- we have a number of things that are actually in the queue, but we haven't had something come out yet that has the same level of offer incentivize advertising as we've had in previous months.

So I think what we're likely to be doing is working through how the ad units need to be repurposed. That's, of course, something which our ad partners are doing anyway. And at the same time, we're in a close dialogue with Apple around anything that needs to be changed to pass the review group.

So, I think you can be confident that Glu is a very nimble business. We're pretty entrepreneurial, pretty flexible with regards to how we maximize our revenue opportunities. And we've made substantial progress in the past couple weeks, thinking through and working through how we want to proceed in order to make sure that revenues from advertising are obviously flat and growing and we're going to continue to do our best to optimize as information unfolds.

ADAM KREJCIK: Okay. Thanks for the detailed responses. And just so my -- I have in my notes correctly, you said in this current quarter, was it $2.2 million of the non-GAAP Smartphone revenue was from offers?

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes. This is Eric. So in Q1, we had $2.2 million of offer revenue on the Apple platform. And then our guidance for Q2 has embedded $2.8 million of offer revenue on the Apple platform. But over half of that is already transacted as of today, and the smaller balance will be over the next two months on a winding down or a lesser basis.

ADAM KREJCIK: Got it. And then just switching subjects if I may. Some of these partnerships that you've announced in the last few days, how should we think about the way you'll book? Is it going to be a rev share agreement? Will you consolidate all the revenues or a portion and a sense of the margins as well? How will that -- how will these deals look like when they actually launch the games?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Okay. So, Glu is the publisher for all these games. So we are going to be especially accounting for all of the revenue. The two deals that we announced today and yesterday, one was with James Frey and his firm, which is to collaborate around creating new properties jointly which are going to be published as digital games and digital books, if not physical books.

That particular deal is structured so that Glu effectively is sharing in non-mobile revenues, so we'd be receiving a royalty for non-mobile exploitation of the properties we jointly create. And similarly, at a certain tier, Full Fathom Five, James Frey's publishing organization would receive a royalty from us for the mobile or other digital games we produce once certain thresholds are crossed. So that's relatively straightforward.

With regard to the Blammo Games deal, Glu is the publisher. It's very -- it's a very straightforward, frankly, third-party developer partnership, whereby we are recouping revenues through a certain level and then paying a rev share to them once that's recouped.

ADAM KREJCIK: Got it. Thanks a lot, and congrats on a nice quarter.

NICCOLO DE MASI: Thanks, Adam.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Tavis McCourt with Morgan Keegan.

TAVIS MCCOURT, ANALYST, MORGAN, KEEGAN: Just a couple of questions to follow-up on the issue with iOS and offers. Niccolo, I was wondering if you could just give us an example of how you guys would define an offer that potentially would be at risk at this point? And then I saw you gave the revenue number from that for Q1 and guide for Q2. Did you give a Q4 revenues from offers or some kind of estimate you can give us?

ERIC LUDWIG: So on that last question, Tavis -- this is Eric -- for Q4, 2010, it was de minimis revenue from offers. So offers really kicked into gear in the first quarter of this year.

TAVIS MCCOURT: Thanks.

ERIC LUDWIG: And then, Niccolo?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Yes. So, Tavis, the application of Apple's causes around manipulating charts doesn't lead to a clear prescription as of yet on types of ad mechanisms which are definitely not going to be allowed going forward versus ones that are definitely allowed. However, I think it's looking increasingly apparent that they are keen on discouraging straight-out incentivized installs. I'm not saying eliminating, but discouraging straight incentivization of install.

So an advertising unit whereby, we or another developer would give away virtual currency in return for a user installing another developer's application. And this is a mechanism, by the way, that's been used by everyone from ourselves to Microsoft to Google, Facebook, you name it, everybody uses this advertising form. And it's been pretty effective because it fills inventory well.

But I think Apple's concern on that one, of course, is that their charts in some ways, to some extent are getting impacted by people who like an incentive rather than like the underlying application. And that obviously is potentially something which they're looking at trying to sort of tighten up the situation around.

So I expect that that will be modified by advertising networks, and that because we integrate with a number of third-party ad networks, we effectively use whatever monetizes well for us. Relatively quickly over the coming months, Glu's shift of advertising will be shifting away from that, and that's not even something we have to necessarily worry about particularly consciously ourselves because of the fact that ad networks will naturally adjust and look to sell different kinds of ad units. So instead of maybe an incentive for installing application, maybe there's an incentive for watching a video demo of an application or engaging with an application in some way.

There's a number of, of course, variations on the [scene], which we believe can be successful ad units, but will not impact Apple's rankings as directly as the incentivized installs have.

TAVIS MCCOURT: That's helpful, Niccolo. Thanks.

NICCOLO DE MASI: Okay.

TAVIS MCCOURT: And then I was wondering if you could talk a little bit -- I know it's been not that long since in-app purchasing on the Android app store began. But talk a little bit about your experience there, vis-Ã vis iOS, kind of the level of growth, obviously the numbers must be much smaller, just given the volume of devices out there. But how should we -- should we expect that to be meaningful relative to iOS by the end of the year or is it more 2012? Or does it happen sooner than that?

NICCOLO DE MASI: I'll pass you to Eric in a second on that one. But I think it's fair to say that Google's kind of a yearish behind Apple. I mean Apple started [an app] purchase in, I think it was late '09, early 2010. So they're probably -- and Eric will (inaudible) they'll be making some similarish numbers, and you should think of them probably as evolving the same way, albeit that their install base is a little ahead of where Apple was at time.

So they're both racing away and everyone reads the same thing around how many daily units are being installed of Android and iOS devices. But certainly at the current place and time, we are expecting Apple to be the larger platform revenue generator for certainly the rest of 2011.

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes. And, Tavis, this is Eric. So right now we're seeing Android monetizing at about one-eighth to one-tenth of what iOS monetizes. In-app purchases just went live, obviously, at the end of March.

And our plan for delivery of products to the Android platform as titles are successful first on iPhone, then we bring a month or so later to the Android platform. So the unsuccessful titles we don't bring. We typically lag by about a month. So you'll be seeing a couple titles coming that were just launched, Big Time Gangsta, Contract Killer, Bug Village in Q2 that were launched in iOS at the end of March, early April 2011.

TAVIS MCCOURT: And when you say monetize one-eighth to one-tenth, Eric, is that on a user-by-user basis or just one-eighth to one-tenth fewer downloads because there's fewer devices out there?

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes, in terms of revenue.

TAVIS MCCOURT: Okay. Thanks a lot.

NICCOLO DE MASI: Great.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Your next question will come from the line of Mark Argento from Craig Hallum Capital.

MARK ARGENTO, ANALYST, CRAIG-HALLUM CAPITAL: Yes. Hi, guys. Good afternoon.

ERIC LUDWIG: Hi.

NICCOLO DE MASI: Hey, Mark.

MARK ARGENTO: When you're thinking about, I know you guys cited a stat. It looks like you're in-app purchases, kind of revenue per transaction went up pretty materially from $1.80 to over $2.30, I think, in the quarter. Can you talk a little bit about, are you fine tuning kind of your offers and maybe moving price points up or what the dynamic at work is there?

ERIC LUDWIG: Yes, sure Mark. So that in-app purchase that I mentioned does not include offers. So that was completely in-app purchases on Apple and Android combined. And what we really saw in the quarter, in Q4 we had lower price point in-app purchase items such as a $1 re-buy, World Series of Poker and smaller chip counts in the first quarter as we launched Gun Bros with more in-app purchase items and really increased the game play. We saw users gravitating up towards higher price-point titles, $50 packs and $100 packs on certain titles, and $5, $10 packs that when you factor it across the entire number of transactions, which was still skewed by things like World Series of Poker, we saw the price point overall increase somewhat substantially from $1.80 to $2.31.

MARK ARGENTO: So you think you have some more room there in terms of [elasticity] that continue to offer higher price-point type products and get decent take rates?

ERIC LUDWIG: Well, I mean, we're certainly tapped out on certain of these platforms at either $50 to $100. So, there's no price points above $99.99 on any of the platforms. It's certainly going to be, be skewed by the denominator. I mean, we still have substantial volumes of transactions on World Series of Poker that are at $1 price points. So, I wouldn't expect to see this number overall increasing significantly given the volume of the denominator. But we are encouraging and pushing higher price points in-app purchases to our games.

MARK ARGENTO: Sure. And when you guys launch a new game, are you doing a lot of cross promotion within your network? Maybe you can talk a little bit more about how -- what you found in terms of what you need to do to successfully launch a game and kind of get it out there in the purview of the community so you get some decent rank and decent uptake. Can you talk a little bit about what you do and how you're starting across market into you own kind of audience now, with your Glu Games Network?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Sure. So, our standard launch program involves everything from direct marketing to the extent that it's permitted, and that has been with the advertisers in the past doing things like CPI. It also involves CPM and CPA techniques. So, Glu also often will advertise with effectively banners in a number of discovery applications in the app store and/or traditional banner advertising which may be on the web.

We also have our own Twitter, Facebook and often -- I call them micro sites really, for our titles, which are on the web or on Facebook. And those have, obviously, over time the more ardent fans tend to gravitate towards those.

With regards to the latest programs, Apple has been looking to do more with its own social networking outreach actually. And so you'll see more partnering with some of the storefront owners as well as some of the OEM owners where that's relevant, to get effectively free cross-collateralization of [rams] and marketing.

So things like the Sony Xperia device which we've been a strong supporter of an Android, has had Gun Brothers in all of its global advertising, because the title was supporting that handset at launch as well as Honeycomb and the latest version of Android, and it fit that device exceptionally well.

So we look for almost every exposure opportunity there is from our partners as well as our own. Effectively I'd say multimedia channels. At the same time, within our own audience, we are seeing certainly a great propensity to be able to incentivize installs between our games. However, in light of Apple's policies that will probably turn into non-incentivized install programs very soon, i.e., we'll be looking to do a more banner advertising probably between our games. To the extent that that works well and/or other advertising techniques between our games, that Apple doesn't believe has any impact on the ranking system.

So we have seen it successful. We believe that as our user base keeps scaling, it is a highly cost effective mechanism, because remember we're not leaking any of the third-party advertising rev share whenever we're cross promoting. But, of course, one must also remember that the cross promoting does have an opportunity cost. We're effectively using [real estate] to promote our own products which could otherwise be used to promote some other add or some other monetization mechanisms.

And that's something we're always finally balancing. In the past few months we have found, however, that we can get the balance pretty well optimized so that we are minimizing hard dollars marketing spend by making our audience effectively look at new titles we've launched, as well as new titles we've launched, they're, of course, in the best demographic for existing users. So as we've built up more and more of an action adventure following, it's been highly effective to get people playing Gun Bros to play Contract Killer, Big Time Gangsta, et cetera.

MARK ARGENTO: Last question. In terms of the competitive environment out there, what are you guys seeing? Are you seeing a lot more titles come to market, fewer titles, bigger developers jumping in? How would say the market's kind of shaken up from a publisher perspective?

NICCOLO DE MASI: It's certainly consolidating, Mark. I mean, you probably saw EA environment this morning, Ngmoco's been acquired, [open think Twingo]. And so I think, our [thesis] all along that who's in a great position given the fact that it's the largest independent developer-publisher is very much coming true. I mean, we're down to -- EA's obviously quite a force and becoming larger. (Inaudible - technical difficulty) our self freemium model.

So I'm expecting that over time our strategy really proves itself out because of the fact that we're able to both build a brand quickly by virtue of the millions and millions of installs we get and also because of the fact that we're building that enduring audience asset. An enduring audience asset is really just beginning to work for us, but over the longer term, I think it'll become a bigger and bigger feature of what we're about.

So I think in summary there, Mark, the landscape's consolidating, but I think it's names you know. We're not finding that there are brand new players in the market who are having success or certainly narrowing any gaps between smaller players and our self.

MARK ARGENTO: Thanks, Niccolo.

NICCOLO DE MASI: Okay.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We currently reached the allotted time for questions. Gentlemen, do you have any further remarks?

NICCOLO DE MASI: Absolutely. I wanted to thank everybody for joining us. We have an Analyst Day coming up on May 26th. The event will be webcasted, and we will be updating everyone who attends or listens in on our initiatives then. So once again that's Analyst Day, May 26th. Thank you again for joining the call.

ERIC LUDWIG: Great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This will conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect your lines.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sorent : Glu Mobile Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | igamsof : Games Software | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcagm : Card Games | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110518e753002xl
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Synchronoss Technologies Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,775 words
   PD
3 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the first-quarter 2011 Synchronoss Technologies, Inc. earnings conference call. My name is Crystal, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Lawrence Irving, Synchronoss Technologies' Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed, sir.

LAWRENCE IRVING, CFO, EVP AND TREASURER, SYNCHRONOSS TECHNOLOGIES, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Synchronoss first-quarter 2011 earnings call. We will be discussing the results announced in the press release issued after the market close today. Again, I am Larry Irving, Chief Financial Officer of Synchronoss. With me on the call is Steve Waldis, President and CEO.

During the call, we will make statements related to our business that may be considered forward-looking statements under federal security laws. These statements reflect our views only as of today and should not be reflected upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. These statements reflect our current views regarding the future and are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. For a discussion of the material risks and other important factors that could affect our actual results, please refer to those listed in our SEC filings, including our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

With that, I will turn the call over to Steve, and then I will come back a bit later to provide some further details regarding our financials and our forward-looking outlook. Steve?

STEVE WALDIS, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, SYNCHRONOSS TECHNOLOGIES, INC.: Thank you, Larry. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us on our call today to review our first-quarter results, which were a very strong start for Synchronoss Technologies in 2011. Revenue exceeded the high end of our expectations, non-GAAP EPS was at the high end of our guidance, and our non-GAAP operating income grew by over 60% year over year, while at the same time we increased investments in our strategic growth initiatives.

Our strong first-quarter performance was a result of our recently expanded relationships with both Verizon wireless and Vodafone, the continued expansion of our transaction footprint at AT&T and the continued rollouts of our e-commerce deployments with our Tier 1 cable service providers.

We are encouraged by our overall momentum of our business, and as Larry will discuss in a few minutes, we will be increasing our revenue guidance for full year 2011. We believe Synchronoss is at the early stage of large and expanding growth opportunities that are driven by the proliferation of connected devices, tablets and multiple new form factors. Each presents significant opportunities and challenges for both Tier 1 service providers and OEMs. We believe our investments in expansion of our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform represents solid growth opportunities.

And in direct support of this strategy and after the market closed today, we issued a separate press release announcing the launch of our SmartMobility product line, which we believe will significantly expand our ConvergenceNow Plus+ value proposition, further differentiate our capabilities by enabling Cloud services from the device itself and provide a new material expansion in our connected device market opportunity.

Alongside the announcement, we are also in the process of working with a major Tier 1 service provider as well as some leading OEMs in order to deploy this revolutionary product offering, which we plan to launch around the end of this year and into 2012, and I will provide additional details on this opportunity in just a few minutes.

Now, let me provide a summary review of our first-quarter results. We reported non-GAAP revenues of $53.4 million, which was $1.4 million above the high end of our guidance and represents 52% growth on a year-over-year basis. From a profitability perspective, we generated a non-GAAP operating margin of 23%, leading to a non-GAAP operating income of 61% on a year-over-year basis and non-GAAP EPS of $0.20, which was at the high end of our guidance and an increase of 43% on a year-over-year basis.

On our last call, we mentioned that one of our top strategic priorities in 2011 was scaling our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform and our relationship with Verizon, which we expect would grow to over 10% of our revenue during 2011. I'm pleased to share that the expansion of our relationship is consistent with and in some cases ahead of our expectations here in early 2011. During the quarter, we made solid progress installing infrastructure required to handle expected growth in transaction volumes and subscribers being scaled throughout 2011. Our R&D efforts were similarly focused on ensuring that we're well prepared to handle the scale and the increased number of subscribers required to enable a superior customer experience directly from the device.

During the first quarter, we launched the first of what will be a growing number of applications or apps that extend our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform onto the devices to manage the customer experience. This app, launched in conjunction with the iPhone launch on the Verizon network, enabled subscribers to use the Cloud to move their contacts and data from other Verizon phones directly onto the new iPhone during the setup and activation process. This extension of ConvergenceNow Plus+ via iTunes application was one of the top downloaded applications for productivity in the iTunes store during the February launch.

In addition to our ConvergenceNow Plus+ related work with Verizon, we also enjoyed a successful launch of our ConvergenceNow Plus+ directly with Apple during the quarter in support of the Verizon iPhone launch. Our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform is now supporting certain transaction types for Apple related to the iPhone running on both AT&T and Verizon's network. And during the first quarter, we continued to expand our global footprint for our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform, including expansion of rollouts with both existing customers at Dell and Panasonic.

As I mentioned up front, one of the key themes for today's call is introducing another significant expansion to our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform, with the introduction of our SmartMobility product. SmartMobility will perform Cloud-based functions from the device that include intelligent network selection and connectivity, the management of network offloading and the optimization of device performance. With the introduction of our ConvergenceNow Plus+ SmartMobility product, Synchronoss will redefine end-to-end transaction management for connected devices and enable carriers and OEMs to deliver a world-class customer experience at a lower cost.

Customers also don't want to spend time with standalone software solutions that constantly need to be updated and tested for new devices. All of these are costly and tough to maintain each year. Instead of buying software and installing software and the network drivers, we will deliver a browser-based solution combining all the powerful workflow and activation functionality currently in our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform, accessible via the Cloud and right from the device itself.

For our customers, it means they can standardize integration across all kinds of device types and simplify the device certification process. This will enable our Tier 1 service providers to reduce both time to market as well as costs associated with introducing new devices. For OEMs, it means that they'll be able to run their devices with no extra work on any new network that uses SmartMobility capabilities as part of our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform.

It will improve the user experience by creating a uniform activation connection and synchronization process across all devices enabled from the Cloud. And for the first time, carriers will be able to offer things such as a single data plan and customer experience across multiple connected devices via smartphone, tablet or even a USB modem.

With SmartMobility integrated in our ConvergenceNow Plus+ platform, our customers will be able to seamlessly activate and upgrade new services on devices, synchronize their content and contacts, optimize device performance and network load, and then connect the device intelligently to the network.

In addition to our in-house resources, we recently acquired Sapience Knowledge Systems, a small, privately held company that brought meaningful domain expertise to the SmartMobility technology. We will augment Synchronoss' capabilities and efforts with Sapience's expertise in order to accelerate our time to market. As I said earlier, we had an early adopter Tier 1 service provider that we're working with related to our SmartMobility product, and we've already identified an initial set of OEMs that we'll be working with to determine the rollout in a number of our devices that will be included in the initial release scheduled for some time later this year, with additional capabilities being launched in 2012. From a timing perspective, we have just begun the detailed planning process with our customers, including which potential connected devices to be included in which rollouts.

We also continue to make solid progress expanding our deployments of our traditional ConvergenceNow offering, and during the first quarter, we deployed our initial version of ConvergenceNow for Vodafone in Germany, supporting the enterprise market. In fact, we showcased our technology at CEBIT in the Vodafone booth early in March, and the response was very strong. We are now focused on onboarding additional enterprise customers as well as rolling out additional functionality through the second quarter.

We are in the early stage of deploying our platform with Vodafone, and we are focused on executing at a high level so that we can put in place a foundation to support future expansion and overall growth.

And from a summary perspective, our relationship with Vodafone is proceeding at the pace we expected.

Our largest customer relationship continues to be AT&T, and we remain focused on executing against a number of live programs, adding additional transaction types and identifying new ways to expand the use of our platform. For example, during the first quarter, we added Direct TV and its associated transactions as we continue to onboard AT&T's indirect channel partners.

We also continue to work on migration programs with AT&T as they move subscribers from other networks onto their network. Our double-digit revenue grow with AT&T also benefited from the positive contribution that came from our support of the launch of both the iPad and iPad 2 post-paid promotions. We continue to help AT&T deliver a world-class customer experience, lower their cost structure, and it's why we continue to have healthy discussions about how and where we can further expand Synchronoss' footprint within AT&T.

And finally, we continue to make progress in our Tier 1 cable provider market. Most of our initial rollouts are complete related to our end-to-end e-commerce deployments that we've been working on, and the focus in 2011 is increasing on adding additional transaction types, deploying incremental functionality and driving increased levels of automation.

In summary, we feel very good about our business. We got off to a strong start in 2011, and we're optimistic about our long-term outlook. We are in the early stages of expanding our relationship with major Tier 1 service providers, and solid growth potential remains with our largest customer, AT&T. We are also investing to the future to further expand our ConvergenceNow Plus+ capabilities, including the launch of our new SmartMobility product, which we believe will further strengthen our position on devices, enhance our value proposition to service providers and OEMs and expand our overall connected device market opportunity.

With that, let me turn it over to Larry.

LAWRENCE IRVING: Thank you, Steve. From a high-level perspective, there were a number of highlights to Synchronoss' first quarter performance and outlook. From a revenue perspective, we achieved strong revenue growth and record revenue diversification, and we are increasing our revenue guidance for the year. From an operational perspective, we are expanding our technology stack through internal R&D investments and acquisitions, and we are making investments in the Company's global operations and structure to position Synchronoss for long-term operating leverage. An example of our efforts paying off is the expansion in our gross margin, in addition to our global expansion, enabling a reduction in our effective tax rate, which I will detail in a moment.

With that overview, I would like to provide additional details on the Company's first-quarter 2011 financial performance, in addition to our guidance for the second quarter and full year of 2011.

Starting with the income statement, GAAP revenues were $52.9 million for the first quarter. After adding back approximately $500,000 of deferred revenue write-downs from the FusionOne acquisition, non-GAAP revenues were $53.4 million, which is above our guidance of $51 million to $52 million and up 52% on a year-over-year basis.

Our AT&T-related revenue was approximately $27.1 million in the first quarter, representing 51% of our total non-GAAP revenue, and growth of 16% on a year-over-year basis. The revenue from our relationships outside of AT&T contributed approximately $26.3 million during the first quarter, representing a record 49% of our total non-GAAP revenue and year-over-year growth of 124%.

The most significant contributor to our non-AT&T revenue was our recently expanded relationship with Verizon, which as Steve pointed out represented a greater than 10% customer for Synchronoss for the first quarter, and we continue to expect them to be greater than a 10% customer for the full year as well.

From a revenue mix perspective, 77% of our first quarter non-GAAP revenue came from recurring sources, namely transaction processing and subscription arrangements, while professional services and licenses made up 23% of our non-GAAP revenue.

Turning to cost and expenses, we will review our numbers both on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. There is a full reconciliation table between the two in our earnings release, which can be located on the Investor Relations section of our website.

Non-GAAP gross profit in the quarter was $30.1 million, representing a non-GAAP gross margin of 56.3%, which is up from 52.1% in the year-ago quarter and is relatively consistent with the fourth quarter of 2010. The year-over-year improvement in gross margin is driven by two primary factors, the scaling of our connect and sync capabilities, which have higher gross margins, and the continued progress in improving efficiencies and automation levels within our overall customer base. The combination of these factors led to less exception handling as a percentage of our total revenues, which is a lower margin revenue source.

As Steve mentioned, we continued to invest in R&D, and it represented 16.3% of our revenue during the first quarter, up from 11.2% in the year-ago quarter. The increase in R&D, which is consistent with our previous guidance, is driven by several factors, including the acquisition of FusionOne. Additional focus on further expanding the capabilities of our ConvergenceNow Plus+ as well as investing in several early-stage customer deployments that we believe have the potential to scale is going to help Synchronoss win incremental business longer term.

We expect R&D to further increase as a percentage of our revenue during 2011 as a result of the incremental investments related the launch of our SmartMobility product later this year, including our organic and acquired resources.

Non-GAAP income from operations was $12 million in the first quarter, representing growth of 61% on a year-over-year basis and a non-GAAP operating margin of 23%, which compares to a 21% operating margin in the year-ago quarter.

The Company's non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 35%, leading to a non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.20, which was consistent with our guidance and was based on 38.4 million shares outstanding. This is up from the 31.9 million weighted average shares outstanding in the year-ago period, with the increase driven primarily by the secondary offering in the second half of 2010 and the increase in our share price.

On a GAAP basis, gross profit was $28.3 million and income from operations was $1.7 million. In the quarter, we recorded a GAAP charge of approximately $4.2 million for the earn-out provision related to the FusionOne acquisition. This was based on continued progress of our business related to the FusionOne performance as well as the increase in the Synchronoss stock price.

As we stated at the time of the acquisition, regardless of the amount of the earn-out charges, the FusionOne acquisition is expected to have a positive impact on Synchronoss' overall bottom-line performance.

It is also worth noting that since the end of the quarter, we have come to an agreement with FusionOne key shareholders to finalize the purchase price, including the earn-out arrangement, and the result is we will pay approximately $11 million in cash, issue approximately 400,000 shares and recognize a final GAAP charge of approximately $3 million distributed over the balance of the year.

Finishing our comments on our first quarter GAAP performance, net income applicable to common stockholders for earnings per share was $1.5 million and GAAP fully diluted earnings per share was $0.04.

Looking at our cash, total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was just over $200 million, up from the $190 million at the end of last quarter. This does not include the impact of using approximately $11 million in cash to finalize the earn-out provision associated with the FusionOne acquisition.

With that, let me turn to the guidance for 2011, starting with the full year. The two high-level messages are that we are raising our revenue guidance and we are reiterating our non-GAAP EPS forecast.

Based on strong first-quarter performance and ongoing momentum, we are raising our full-year revenue guidance from a range of $214 million to $220 million to a range of $218 million to $223 million. This represents year-over-year growth of approximately 28% to 31% over 2010.

We continue to target full-year non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.80 to $0.84, which is a product of several factors. We continue to expect non-GAAP gross margins in the 57% to 58% range, with a certain degree of quarter-to-quarter variability, and this is up from the 54% level in 2010. With increased R&D investments related to our SmartMobility offering, both organic and acquired, we now expect our full-year non-GAAP operating margin to be 22%, compared to our previous view of 22% to 23%.

We are now targeting a full-year effective tax rate of 33% to 34%, which is a reduction from our previous guidance of 37%. It is also worth pointing out that some of our efforts to lower our long-term tax rate including the global deployment of our resources have had an impact of raising operating expenses. That is taken into consideration in our non-GAAP operating margin guidance, and the most important fact is that the net result is driving greater EPS from a long-term perspective.

Finally, from a share-count perspective, we are currently assuming 39.7 million weighted average shares outstanding for 2011. This is an increase from our previous guidance of 38.9 million shares, due primarily to the higher share price, employee stock option exercises and the finalization of the shares associated with completing the earn-out provision of the FusionOne acquisition.

Our share count does not assume execution of the new $20 million share buy-back program that we announced today, which was put in place primarily to offset dilution from employee stock option exercises and the earlier than expected FusionOne earn-out settlement. As the timing and magnitude of share repurchase can vary, we have not included the potential impact of the share buyback program into our guidance.

As Steve mentioned, we recently closed the acquisition of Sabience Knowledge Systems, which had a total purchase price of $5.8 million. There is also an earn-out provision that could lead to an additional cash payment of approximately $3 million or more. Any future earn-out would be treated as continued consideration and adjusted for non-GAAP earnings.

Turning to the second quarter of 2011, we are targeting non-GAAP revenues in the range of $54 million to $55 million, which represents annual growth of approximately 45% to 48%. We are targeting non-GAAP gross margins in the 57% to 58% range, non-GAAP operating margins at approximately 21%, with non-GAAP EPS of approximately $0.19 to $0.20, assuming a tax rate of 33% to 34% and a diluted share count of approximately 39.5 million shares. Keep in mind we are further increasing our R&D investments beginning in the second quarter, and that is taken into consideration in our guidance.

In summary, we are very encouraged by the momentum of our business. We continue to expand our customer relationships as the scope of our value proposition. We believe we are in the early stages of bringing a full suite of platform capabilities to the marketplace, and as Synchronoss increasingly becomes positioned on the device itself, we see a growing number of ways that we can monetize this rapidly growing opportunity.

With that, let me turn it to the operator and we'll begin the Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions.) Tom Roderick, Stifel Nicolaus.

TOM RODERICK, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: I wanted to start my first question here just talking a little bit more about FusionOne because it seems like with the earn-out, you're kind of getting to the conclusion of what the final price is there. But it certainly seems like FusionOne is pacing ahead of your expectations. As you look at the scope of opportunities that you've been engaged with at Verizon, I was wondering if you could talk about how that scope is expanding, maybe reference some of the new products that you're launching on that front. And how does that exposure stack up as it relates to other carriers that are looking at FusionOne, knowing that it was historically a Verizon-based solution. Thanks.

STEVE WALDIS: Hey, Tom. This is Steve. A lot of the efforts that we've had in terms of the FusionOne assets clearly have been enhanced in our roadmap that we discussed at the beginning of the year at Verizon. And so there's several opportunities there that have definitely passed well. I think you got an opportunity to see how, with the application in the iTunes store this past quarter, how some of the benefit of that work is being rolled out.

The big focus primarily has been around enabling the infrastructure and giving us the capabilities to be able to handle the types of transactions to scale. But to the latter part of your question, it positions Synchronoss in a nice opportunity to be able to port some of those assets from FusionOne as well as some of our core stuff with ConvergenceNow Plus+ and make it very applicable and consumable across other Tier 1 providers.

And so, although we don't obviously discuss our pipeline, the opportunities and the product need seems to be very high in the market today, and so we're excited both on the Verizon fronts as well as our opportunities to use that technology in other customers both here and internationally.

TOM RODERICK: Should investors think about FusionOne as being strictly a B2C type of phenomenon for you, or does this have B2B applicabilities for some of your other customers?

STEVE WALDIS: It has both. A lot of customers today, when you look at the handset sync capabilities as well as the new form factors of devices, clearly the ability to sync and make data not only work at the device level but provide a consumer version of the phone on a weekend and turn it into a business version during the week is very applicable. And it's a need that provides further horizontal integration that competitively puts these large Tier 1 carriers on even footing with a lot of the OEMs out there that are developing proprietary closed-in vertical software applications.

TOM RODERICK: Great. Let's shift gears here to Sapience. Can you just help us understand first of all how many employees you're picking up as part of that acquisition? And then secondly, as we think about the competitive environment, is this a direct competitive go-to-market situation against, say, a Smith Micro or a Birdstep out in the marketplace? Who else should we think about as being competitive in the device connection management space?

STEVE WALDIS: So I think ultimately we obviously [didn't get into] the specific employees associated with who came over in the Sapience acquisition, Tom. But we view what our Tier 1 customers are asking for and even our OEMs as it's only logical. When we started a year and a half ago with our customers with ConvergenceNow Plus+, in the sense that hey, we'd like to be able to activate on multiple networks. And then over time, we want to run multiple form factors or connected devices on these networks. It became obvious almost across all of our customer base that if you're going to be really intelligent about activating and upgrading me and really smart about connecting all of my handsets to the right appropriate data, can you extend that technology out to make the device a lot smarter?

And because we've got that unique presence on the device and we've got the expertise that we're building in the Cloud, it really became a natural extension of what Synchronoss is providing today with its customers, so it allows customers not only to have multiple devices but one operating or one data plan from a carrier, and to really provide intelligent connection capabilities to the various different networks that are out there today, whether that's 3G, 4G or WiFi, etcetera.

So it really became almost a natural extension of what our customers wanted to see, and provides a really powerful end-user customer experience to be able to activate, sync and dynamically be intelligent about communicating what networks you're going to run that device on. It was a very logical next step for Synchronoss.

TOM RODERICK: Perfect. And Larry, real quick financial question for you. Big jump in the deferred revenues quarter on quarter. Can you just help us to understand that jump?

LAWRENCE IRVING: Yes, there was a bit of money coming from Verizon. I think I mentioned in the last call that we would have a subscription component of our revenue, and that's the piece of it. So a large percentage of that growth that you see from quarter to quarter is coming from Verizon.

TOM RODERICK: Great. Thank you very much. Nice job.

LAWRENCE IRVING: Thanks, Tom.

OPERATOR: Tom Ernst, Deutsche Bank.

TOM ERNST, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: First quick question for you. Are you assuming some revenue from Sapience in the guidance?

STEVE WALDIS: So Sapience itself did not have any revenue. In terms of our smart connectivity into the year, we assumed a very non-material amount.

TOM ERNST: Okay, perfect. And then you mentioned that you've gone through one phase of ramping Vodafone successfully and you're beginning another. Have we begun Vodafone revenues of significance this year, and what sort of scale and how will the revenue ramp over the course of the year? Thank you.

STEVE WALDIS: Thanks, Tom. So we had a very successful presentation out in March in Germany at the CEBIT event. Got a lot of interest. Both helps us not only get our brand name as we move into Europe into different areas, but we essentially deployed what we think is a really neat initial version of the technology. And right now, there's two primary functions going on. The first is to really enhance in the second part of the platform a lot more functionality. We got some great feedback from some of the larger enterprise customers in Europe about certain ways they'd like to see the ordering even more simplified. And so we've got some of those additions coming on as well as working very closely with Vodafone to convert over a lot of customers who are already essentially lining up to go online and get access to this experience because it's a big benefit for the customer themselves.

And so, we see this no different than what we initially saw the year. We looked for a successful initial deployment. We feel very good about where we're at. Now we're in that phase of enhancing that and starting to onboard customers. So 2011 is going to look a lot like getting some of these features and functions in the first half of the year, and then adding customers throughout the year.

TOM ERNST: One more thought, if you'll let me, as well. I know you've talked in the past about how the announcement with Vodafone has led to some interest from other potential customers in Europe and around the world. Any new spike in interest now that you've actually got live enterprise customers? What's happened with the lead generation?

STEVE WALDIS: It's definitely put a lot of the discussion around Synchronoss in terms of our capabilities, it's definitely vaulted us. One of the big advantages for sure coming out of the CEBIT event is we were predominantly displayed in the Vodafone booth, and they were very open about a lot of the work that we're doing. As we've spanned through Europe, we're touching a lot of enterprise customers who you can imagine deal with other providers, Vodafone, and it's putting us in an opportunity to have a lot more detailed conversations specifically around the enterprise space.

TOM ERNST: Thank you again.

STEVE WALDIS: Thanks, Tom.

OPERATOR: Scott Sutherland, Wedbush Securities.

SCOTT SUTHERLAND, ANALYST, WEDBUSH SECURITIES: First of all, your recurring transaction revenue had been kind of fading down the last year and it jumped dramatically this quarter, and the subscription professional services revenue dropped. Can you talk a little bit about what happened there?

LAWRENCE IRVING: I'm trying to understand your question. So our recurring revenue for last quarter was 77%. I believe it's consistent again this year at 77%. So one of the things that we have done as it relates to the Verizon relationship is it brought a little bit more of just a combination of subscription and transactions, so we combined the two together to give kind of the full view of what that recurring stream looks like. But that's in the neighborhood of 77%. Historically, we were over 80% before the Verizon relationship.

SCOTT SUTHERLAND: Yes, I'm just looking, what was it last quarter (multiple speakers)?

LAWRENCE IRVING: I believe it was 77%.

SCOTT SUTHERLAND: Okay. The second question I had, on the FusionOne, you're seeing all these handsets in the market on the smartphones. Can you talk a bit more about the adoption we're seeing from consumers and actually using the content backup and transfer? Are you starting to see adoption there?

STEVE WALDIS: We're starting to see two things are driving adoption. One is clearly the number of smartphone penetration has just been, as you know, enormous over the last year or two. And those smartphone customers continue to jump on, and obviously having their data backed up is important. But what's also bolstered that adoption rate, Scott, pretty significantly is in our relationship with carriers, there are now multiple devices -- pick on Verizon for a second -- where you can run really multiple operating, whether it's BlackBerry, Apple, now RIM devices on their network. And so consumers now find the value of having that backed up with Verizon even more beneficial because as new devices and new OSs come out, they're in a great position to be able to turn those devices on and have that information the way they want it from the beginning. So those have probably been the two biggest factors that we've seen in the adoption.

SCOTT SUTHERLAND: Okay. And lastly, following on Tom's question on Sapience, from the sound of the technology, it sounds like you have to have a device present for the device to be intelligent to choose networks and be smart about offloading and things like that. Is that fair? Would it be correct that you would incorporate this into some sort of handset software or an update to that software, and then you can offer this type of technology?

STEVE WALDIS: It essentially allows, Scott, for OEMs to be able to have -- certainly being on the device clearly is [a big beneficial], but it also allows OEMs to really standardize the way that they want to deploy that so that they can write essentially one interface, use it through the web-based approach and then we can manage that mostly in the Cloud that used to be on the device. So it is helpful, but as long as those devices are supporting, and one of the partners we're working with is one of the Tier 1 providers. The API interface allows us to be able to roll this out in a much more standardized fashion, eliminating a lot of the testing and some of the other elements that in the past has held back some of these new devices from getting certified.

SCOTT SUTHERLAND: And Larry, really quickly, do you have the FusionOne revenue, or are you giving that out anymore?

LAWRENCE IRVING: No. It's really incorporated in our overall business.

SCOTT SUTHERLAND: Yes, that's what I thought. Thank you.

STEVE WALDIS: Thanks, Scott.

OPERATOR: Shyam Patil, Raymond James.

SHYAM PATIL, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Just my first question is just more of a clarification one. When you think about the outperformance relative to your revenue assumptions for the quarter, any specific things you could point to that drove that? Or was it more broad based?

LAWRENCE IRVING: I would say it's broad based. I mean, the way to look at it is we did exceed our revenue targets, so that certainly was one. From a margin perspective, we were pretty much consistent where we expected it to be. Our operating margin was slightly above where we expected it to be, and our tax rate was a bit lower. So I think from every aspect of the business, I think everything has gone favorably for us in this particular quarter.

SHYAM PATIL: Great. And I know you guys don't like to talk about specific customers, but as you think about the potential impact of the AT&T T-Mobile transaction, how should we think about the impact on Synchronoss?

STEVE WALDIS: It's obviously given that the transaction's not approved or completed yet, it's hard to give any type of credible prediction of the future. I can say in the history of our relationship with AT&T, they've gone through quite a number of acquisitions, and those acquisitions have in the past tended to be driven to be very beneficial to Synchronoss. And we clearly have a footprint now that is pretty significant in and around the different channels that clearly overlap, so it would be hard for us to predict with any kind of credibility on a go-forward basis what that would mean. But in the past, it's traditionally been a good thing for us with AT&T in terms of some of the acquisitions that they've completed, for sure.

SHYAM PATIL: Great. As we look beyond 2011, it seems like you guys have a lot of potential growth drivers in play. Can you talk about which two to three drivers you're most excited about kind of beyond this year?

STEVE WALDIS: Yes. I think the two or three ones that we continue to really have good success in is our ConvergenceNow offering. We feel really good not just in some of the replication that we've had in the cable markets here in the US but in our relationship with Vodafone and our ability to continue to drive that business in Europe. But at the same time, I also think that we've got a really neat position in the market where we have market-leading OEMs such as Apple, Dell, Panasonic and others who are customers, but at the same time we're finding ways to really get horizontal integration with the big service providers.

And so, the ability to do what we're doing for these service providers and enabling these multiple devices on the networks and be able to have a hand in both of those markets in a way that's complementary to everybody, that would probably be the other set of growth drivers that we're excited about as we head towards the future.

Clearly, the device path is coming. There's more devices almost every day being released, and Synchronoss really provides this ability to take the step that we used to do from the web online directly to the device. And as we're able to develop new technologies and products like we discussed today that eliminate those barriers to certification on networks and running on networks and activating on networks, then that proliferation of devices should be a very favorable trend for us.

SHYAM PATIL: Great. And just my last question, the AT&T contract is up for renewal at the end of this year. I know you guys have stated in the past that you weren't going to explicitly talk about that. Maybe just to help us out, how should we think about the renewal process and what should we expect from you guys in terms of communication around that?

STEVE WALDIS: So we've had a long history obviously with AT&T. The current contract runs till the end of the year, and then it has two automatic renewals. And so our relationship, we're at the very early stages of onboarding brand-new programs with AT&T. We just onboarded Direct TV this last quarter. We've got some other initiatives that we're working on. And so, we continue to drive and look for ways to continue our growth at AT&T, and as far as we can see today, we expect that trend to continue.

SHYAM PATIL: Great. Thanks, guys. Congrats again.

STEVE WALDIS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Julio Quinteros, Goldman Sachs.

VINCENT LIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: It's Vincent sitting in for Julio. Hi, how are you? So the first question I guess on margins. It makes a ton of sense in terms of the investments, just given the kind of momentum and demand kind of tailwinds that you're seeing right now. My question is more on the trajectory in terms of R&D investments. Intuitively as the investment base runs to whether it's the new initiatives and the new customers, investments that you're making right now, as we move toward the second part of 2011 and maybe into 2012, should we begin to see some [normalization] in terms of R&D spending and hopefully there's going to be some increased margin leverage going forward?

LAWRENCE IRVING: That's very correct. The way we've been looking at the business is we've been driving revenue growth, we've been diversifying our revenue base, we've been increasing our gross margins, so driving more technology to drive those margins. And in doing that, we're making investments in R&D. Over time, we expect to continue to drive more and more revenue and obviously the R&D will start to stabilize from a spend point of view and we'll start to see a lift in our operating margins. So that's exactly the view that we see it moving forward into 2012 and beyond.

VINCENT LIN: Got it. And then just a quick follow-on with the guidance. Is there anything changing on the margin in terms of the AT&T revenue expectations versus the non-AT&T clients? Thanks.

LAWRENCE IRVING: In terms of gross margins and operating margins, as we mentioned, we're keeping the gross margins consistent where we were in our guidance last quarter, and we basically took our operating margins from what was 23% to 22%, and really, that's a byproduct of the investment we're making in R&D, specifically around the SmartMobility product.

VINCENT LIN: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions.) Greg Dunham, Credit Suisse.

GREG DUNHAM, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I want to follow up on the R&D spend because that typically is a leading indicator to growth in your business. Can you remind us what the timeframe is and the lag on that typically is, number one. And number two, how should we think about the mix of spend between SmartMobility and some of your other initiatives?

STEVE WALDIS: That's a good question, Greg. This is Steve. So typically, each different accounts are different based upon the amount of effort obviously that goes into each of the R&D efforts. But one of the things that we've done is clearly especially in the support of large Tier 1 service providers, that if we've got a path to be able to get commitments on volumes in a different set of directions where we're going, typically those investments will be out a few quarters in front of that business as it starts to mature. Now, that obviously varies by product line.

And in terms of overall investments, I would think that we continue -- because the growth initiatives continue to develop as planned, we continue to put investments both as Larry had mentioned earlier in Europe, supporting our Vodafone launch, to ensure that that's successful and that we've got a real good global operation in Europe to be able to get multiple customers out of that region. And then we're also at the same time putting investments in our CM Plus+ product.

Clearly, with some of the relationships that we've established both at Verizon and then some of our newer products with some of our newer customers coming on on the CM Plus+ side, we definitely find ourselves with this opportunity to really increase, to your point, the R&D spend with the idea of getting that leverage that we're looking for going forward. And we've got, I think, a great opportunity with our position on these device as well as our current customer base to be able to see the growth of that as they grow. And as you've probably seen over the last few weeks, as they talk about their businesses going forward and just the rapid smartphone adoption at Verizon alone are very positive trends for us.

And so, you're seeing that investment now, and as Larry said, we absolutely see that [as the quarters] and as we go out to get that leverage in the model.

GREG DUNHAM: And then one quick one, if you permit. CapEx assumptions going forward this year?

LAWRENCE IRVING: In the first quarter, it was roughly about 6% of our revenue. Greg, we always guide roughly between 8% to 10% of our total revenues, and we don't expect that to be any different by the end of the year. There may be some lumpiness in between, but it should be roughly about 8% to 10% when all is said and done.

GREG DUNHAM: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Lauren Choi, JPMorgan.

LAUREN CHOI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I'm glad to hear the backup in the store continues to expand in scope at Verizon. Just kind of a question. I think last time you guys mentioned the roadmap could potentially get into the ConvergenceNow Plus+ activation side of the equation. Has Verizon started talking or testing that area yet?

STEVE WALDIS: We haven't provided any specifics other than the overall roadmap for the year obviously for NDA purposes. But the roadmap is fundamentally the same as we discussed last time. And we're in the process of doing a bunch of neat things with those guys, and we're setting up a lot of the infrastructure and growth that we talked about, and as I mentioned earlier, we're a little bit ahead of where we thought we'd be in our Verizon relationship as we start out at 2011.

LAUREN CHOI: Okay, great. And there's a whole bunch of connected devices on the market or about to come out on the market. Just curious, you guys signed up a whole bunch of customers at the end of 2009, beginning of 2010. How is that going?

STEVE WALDIS: I think you'll see from a connected device perspective, clearly some of the market leaders -- I assume you're referring to the OEMs that we signed directly -- those that have a propensity to understand how to go direct marketing were out of the gate a lot faster than some of the guys who were trying to go explore this opportunity to go more of a direct mode. On the service provider side, what's really exciting is clearly all of the service providers that we're dealing with, both here in the US and even Europe, are all wanting to make sure that with these connected devices and multiple form factors on their networks, they can provide value-added services.

We see a lot of providers out there that in terms of making that personalization and storing information in the Cloud and giving consumers or enterprises a real compelling reason to want to interact with the provider that provides some overarching value prop that's not limited to a specific set of functions that you'd get at either an iPad or a Google Android phone, etcetera. And we see that that's a pretty exciting time because we think that the service providers are going to be taking the next step forward by offering some really interesting bundles and capabilities and data plans that allow you to use multiple devices. And obviously, we're building our technology for the ability to support that.

LAUREN CHOI: Okay. And just last question, Larry, so you mentioned that there's some increase maybe in operating expenses related to reducing the tax rate longer term. Is that a level that will be around for a while, or will it start tapering off at one point?

LAWRENCE IRVING: It's built into our guidance already, so a lot of what we're doing in terms of in a sense globalizing a lot of our labor force is really to try to take advantage of certain tax advantages that you get as a byproduct of that. So what ends up happening is we may be paying a little bit more for some resources -- let's just use Ireland for an example. We may be paying a little bit more for some resources, but net-net we're getting a benefit. And that's kind of the point we're making there is we're making investments in the infrastructure that's going to give us some overall lower effective tax rate, and we're starting to see the benefits of that. But it is resulting in some operating expenses, but it is baked in our guidance.

LAUREN CHOI: Okay. But it's I guess a non-operating longer-term thing that does not go away maybe in 2013 or longer term?

LAWRENCE IRVING: Yes. A better way of looking at it is I probably could get a lower head cost for some of the labor that we've done in development, but I choose not to do that because I can get a net-net benefit by having it in certain geographic locations that give me a better effective tax rate.

LAUREN CHOI: I understand. Okay, makes sense. Okay, thank you very much.

STEVE WALDIS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Tom Kucera, Avondale Partners.

TOM KUCERA, ANALYST, AVONDALE PARTNERS: Tom Kucera. I'm here for John Bright. One thing I just want to touch on, SmartMobility, you're talking about a Tier 1 operator. Are you able to comment on whether that's a new customer or an existing customer?

STEVE WALDIS: No, I'm sorry, Tom. Due to our NDA, we can't give any more specifics on that.

TOM KUCERA: I understand. And in terms of announcing a new buyback here, and I understand that's sort of concurrent with effects related to the earn-out. But it may be an opportunity to maybe update us on your thoughts in terms of uses of cash in terms of M&A versus returning to shareholders?

LAWRENCE IRVING: We just announced the buyback, which is equal to $20 million. But when you talk about the cash overall, we've got I think I mentioned in the prepared script, if you were on the call, that we're going to use $11 million to pay off the earn-out. But as we look forward in terms of where we are, and we are going to continue to generate in cash, we're looking at M&A and M&A is certainly an opportunity for us. But at this point in time, that's the only particular uses of cash that we've scheduled.

TOM KUCERA: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: That concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to hand the call back to Mr. Steven Waldis, CEO, for closing remarks.

STEVE WALDIS: I want to thank everybody for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's call. Thank you so much for your participation. You may now disconnect, and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
srnoss : Synchronoss Technologies Inc. | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | cacqu : Acquisitions | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110518e753000jh
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Boston Properties Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
18,795 words
   PD
3 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Boston Properties first-quarter earnings call.

   TD
This call is being recorded. All audience lines are currently in a listen only mode.

Our speakers will address your questions at the end of the presentation during the question and answer session. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Arista Joyner, Investor Relations Manager for Boston Properties. Please go ahead.

ARISTA JOYNER, IR MANAGER, BOSTON PROPERTIES: Good morning and welcome to Boston Properties first-quarter earnings conference call. The press release and supplemental package were distributed last night as well as furnished on Form 8-K. In the supplemental package, the Company has reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements.

If you did not receive a copy, these documents are available in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.bostonproperties.com. An audio webcast of this call will be available for 12 months in the Investor Relations section of our website.

At this time, we would like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call which are not historical may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Although Boston Properties believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained. Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements are detailed in Monday's press release and from time to time in the Company's filings with the SEC.

The Company does not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. Having said that, I would like to welcome Mort Zuckerman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Doug Linde, President; and Mike LaBelle, Chief Financial Officer.

Also during the question-and-answer portion of our call, our regional management team will be available to answer questions as well. I would now like to turn the call over to Mort Zuckerman for his formal remarks.

MORT ZUCKERMAN, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CEO, BOSTON PROPERTIES: Good morning, everybody. I think we are continuing to see fairly good progress in virtually all of our markets and feel very comfortable about the market responses that we anticipate going forward.

As we have indicated many times in the past, I think the markets that we are in and the product that we have within those markets really does work in times like this and we are optimistic about being able to start another building in New York and to lease that building up fairly well. So I think we are feeling modestly confident about the future and reasonably optimistic about our particular role in the real estate markets that we are in.

This is all within the context of seeing still a fairly anemic recovery in the economy in general. This suggests that interest rates will remain fairly low but demand will be selective and there will be pressure on the best buildings in the best markets.

So we think we have a chance to increase our prices, but it's not going to be anything like what we had several years ago until the overall economy gets to be stronger, and I just don't see that happening for a while. With that, I'll turn it over to Doug Linde who will give you a detailed analysis of our performance. Doug?

DOUG LINDE, PRESIDENT, BOSTON PROPERTIES: Thanks, Martin. Good morning, everybody, and thanks for joining us today.

When I spoke to you last quarter, I gave you a pretty thorough dive into the operating fundamentals in our markets and our expectations for 2011. So this morning, I'm going to give you a more condensed summary of what we are seeing from a leasing fundamentals perspective.

And then I thought I would put some more detail on our current plans for deploying capital which everyone is always interested in, and give you a little bit of a perspective on what we're seeing in the acquisition markets. But first let's start with the leasing markets.

And sort of feeding off Mort's comments, I think it's fair to say that our business is clearly more correlated to what's going on in the stock market than the overall economy, and it's pretty evident in our quarterly earnings numbers. The stock market continues to perform well, gross margins are at historic levels.

Corporations have robust earnings and guess what, we are seeing pretty good leasing trends particularly in Midtown Manhattan, the Back Bay of Boston; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Waltham; Reston Town Center, Virginia; and the Peninsula which for us is Mountain View, California. These are markets that are all being characterized by accelerating leasing velocity, increases in rental rates and/or lower transaction concessions.

Now, I would say the Washington DC, the city itself, has really yet to see a pickup in the private sector activity. And while San Francisco's CBD is starting to see more tenant demand from technology type tenants, in less traditional buildings, we're only beginning to see improvements north of market, which is where our portfolio is.

Our quarterly second-generation leasing staff, I think we're better than we had forecasted with a rolldown of just under 3%. The Boston activity was concentrated in the suburbs where we rolled leases in the mid-30s to low 40s, down to about $30 per square foot in Waltham.

In New York, we had 22 transactions that hit the statistics this quarter. The largest was only 13,000 square feet. 67% of them were actually in Times Square Tower or 2 Grand Central Tower which are obviously our lowest end properties in the market.

In DC, more than two-thirds of the leases were in Northern Virginia and rents actually rolled up about 10 to 20% there. And in San Francisco, the statistics included a 270,000 square foot renewal on Zanker Road where the rent went from $14 triple net to $13 triple net.

Our average lease length was about six years and given the concentration of suburban deals, transaction costs were pretty low this quarter at about $22 per square foot. The portfolio marked to market is starting to get more and more positive and today it stands at about $0.67 per square foot.

During the quarter, we continued to lease at a pretty normalized clip with 1.475 million square feet of new transactions which is actually the median level for our first quarters over the last seven years to sort of give you a sense of how normalized that is. Our activity was concentrated in DC.

58% of the deals were completed and many of the transactions were ones we have been discussing for the last few quarters but actually got signed including McDermott Will and Emory at 500 North Capital, Northrop Grumman in Reston and an extension and partial reduction by Akin Gump at 1333 New Hampshire Ave.

I would note that what we are seeing in Washington DC continues to be this trend of reductions by law firm tenants when they sign new leases. So as a couple of examples, McDermott is moving from about 200,000 square feet to a current commitment of 170,000 square feet when they move into 500 North Capital at the end of next year.

And Akin Gump reduced its 290,000 square foot footprint by about a floor or 26,000 square feet. So I would say that our short-term outlook on the DC office leasing market is cautious.

There are significant blocks of high-quality space available in traditional private sector locations as well as new additions to the inventory in the form of tenant relocations such as when McDermott moves from 613 St. to 500 North Capital and there's some new construction going on too. 1000 Connecticut Avenue which is a building that's got about 115,000 square feet of speculative leasing in it to be done as well as the old convention center which is purportedly being resurrected by [Heinz] which is about 450,000 square feet.

The DC private sector market with the concentration of law firms continues to be lease expiration driven and there are quite frankly limited lease expirations from major tenets between 2011 and 2014. But, I think the good news is that between 2015 and 2017, there are 12 users currently leasing over 150,000 square feet and eight users between 80,000 and 150,000 square feet with lease expirations.

And I would note taking a page out of our own book that we expect our planned 450 square foot development at 601 Mass. Ave. which matches up pretty well with this expected demand to deliver during that timeframe and I think Ray would be disappointed if I didn't point out that even though we're somewhat cautious on DC, our portfolio is 98% leased and we are in active discussions on our availability at 2200 Penn and Market Square North. Overall transaction velocity continues to be strongest in New York City.

As we have been previewing, overall vacancy in our portfolio is about 3% as we got back 110,000 square feet will at the base of 2 Grand Central, but activity on that block has actually started to pick up, a big difference from last quarter. We've completed 90,000 square feet of leases at 510 Madison since we spoke last quarter including a recent transaction with a large hedge fund for 67,000 square feet at the base of the building, so that brings our total signed commitments to 36% of that square footage.

We completed 14 other small office deals this quarter in the remainder of the portfolio and we think transaction costs have pretty settled at this point between 60 and $65 per square foot. Free rent is now under 10 months and pre-built spaces where the cost is a little bit higher, we get paid in the form of a premium with less free rent but those costs are about 15% more expensive in terms of what we are putting in for TIs.

I would also note that Toys "R" Us/FAO Schwarz has chosen to exercise their five-year extension right at 767 Fifth starting in January of 2012 and we're working through a rent arbitration process as we speak. Well another US law firm disbanded as the Howrey firm made a bankruptcy filing and they occupied the 54th floor of 601 Lexington Ave. 30,000 square feet.

They abandoned their space last month and we are in the process of negotiating a new lease on the entire premises at a starting rent that's about 25% higher than the contractual rent for the lease and that lease was signed in 2006 which I think is a pretty good indication of the recovery of the Midtown market.

As a side note, Howrey had a major presence at 2099 Pennsylvania Ave. in Washington DC which we expect will be another addition to that market's current inventory. In the Bay area, the story continues to be the dramatic increase in activity on the peninsula and in the valley.

LinkedIN, Dreamworks, Apple, Facebook, Google, Dell, HP, Motorola and Broadcom, they have all committed to significant expansion and positive absorption. This is a continuation of the big change we described earlier this year.

Our single-story Mountain View product continues to see good activity and we're now conducting a tour a day compared to a tour week in the second half of 2010. And we are finalizing a 73,000 square-foot lease on two buildings in our North First site which were originally intended to be scraped and redeveloped as Class A site and have been vacant for an extended period of time which gives you a sense of how much stronger the market is down in the peninsula.

On our last call, we described the significant activity in our CBD Boston portfolio and the dramatic difference between the conditions in the Back Bay and the financial district. Current availability in the Back Bay is under 6% and about 17% in the financial district.

There are a number of high-quality financial district assets with strong financial backing with significant vacancies. Yet even in the financial district, we have been able to outperform the market i.e. Boston Properties.

The Atlantic Wharf Waterfront building, the lowrise, floors two through seven, contains 220,000 square feet. Since late last year, we have leased a total of 140,000 square feet. The tenants include a social media company which was recently purchased by a global ad agency, an architectural firm with a focus on institutional work and the Boston Society of Architects, and we are negotiating a lease on the remaining 80,000 square feet with a tech company coming out of Cambridge.

This is in the face of nine blocks of space in the lowrise portions of Class A buildings in the financial district in excess of 100,000 square feet. So even in a challenged market as Mort said, our product can lease.

Let me switch my comments now to our investment in our capital activity. This time last year, we were busy underwriting and mining a series of assets that we expected to trade.

I think we are ahead of the curve and given our view on the improvement in the tenant demand for these very specific assets and submarkets, there was limited capital chasing these transactions and we ultimately closed on 510 Madison and 500 North Capital, the Hancock Tower and Bay Colony. Well the dam has clearly broken and there is a flood of capital chasing assets in our core markets today.

The auction of Market Square in Washington DC last month I think is illustrative of the magnitude of bidders and the aggressiveness of the bidding. There were a number of third-party bidders within 1 or 2% of the purchase price paid and they include REITs, open-ended pension funds, and sovereign wealth funds.

Since last week, another high-quality building, Liberty Place in Washington DC was put under agreement on a preemptive basis by a fund manager during a marketed process and at very similar pricing. And we're seeing similar outcomes in New York City, 7 57th Ave. in Midtown, a good building with very long-term leases traded under comparable circumstances. Current NOI returns are between 4.5% and 5.5% for stable assets with limited short-term rollover in DC and New York and total costs are approaching if not in excess of replacement costs.

While we continue to aggressively pursue acquisitions, we also have the opportunity and the ability to deploy capital and development in our current and near-term pipeline is very promising. The initial office components of Atlantic Wharf and 2200 Penn were put into service during the first quarter.

The residential and retail portions of these projects will be opening over the next few months. The retail components are 94% leased and the apartments are being delivered into an accelerating and strong recovery in both DC and Boston apartment markets.

Our apartment asking rents are 10% higher than our original trended budgets and our pre-opening commitments are absent any tenant concessions. We expect to stabilize apartment components to yield in excess of 7.5% in DC and almost 6.5% in Boston on a cash basis.

In total, we will invest $177 million in these apartment projects and about $950 million in total in the whole mixed-use project at 2200 Penn and Atlantic Wharf. We will see a growing income contribution from these projects that will stabilize in 2012.

But that's just the beginning. We're completing the design work on our campus redevelopment for the Defense Intelligence Agency in Reston and will be under construction in July on this $130 million project which will deliver in February 2012 and May of 2013 with a mid-8% cash on cash return.

We have begun demolition and mobilization of the $122 million of 500 North Capital JV development and anticipate completion of that building in December of 2012. We are negotiating an expansion of our 50-50 joint venture with the Gould family at Annapolis Junction outside of Ft. Meade.

Government users have already leased the first building and we are constructing a two-story 120,000 square-foot $28 million speculative development that will be completed in the fourth quarter of this year. Last year we successfully purchased a defaulted mortgage secured by the last remaining land parcel in the urban core in Reston Town Center.

We obtained fee ownership of the parcel which is zoned for 359 residential units and 28,000 square feet of retail space. We are in the process of completing design on this 350,000 square-foot building and expect to commence construction late this year on a $135 million project for delivery in late 2013 or early 2014 and our current return estimate is in the low 7% range based on current market rents.

We are in active lease negotiation with a tenet for about 20% of the office space at 250 W. 55th St. As Mort suggested if the lease get executed which we believe it will, we would be expect to begin mobilization and restart the building during the fourth quarter of 2011.

Space could be delivered back to tenants as early as the summer of 2013 and the building would be placed in service in early 2014. When we suspended the building in February of 2009, our outlook on leasing the rest of the space as we entered a declining market was pretty daunting.

Our perspective today is just the opposite. We see the market improving, availability of large blocks of space in Midtown becoming limited, the efficiency and sustainability of our building being very attractive to tenants and the prospects for opening the building into a rising market being so much stronger.

We are in discussions with other large tenants as well. The current investment in the asset is about $480 million and our current estimate to complete the building including capitalized costs on the entire project assuming a fourth-quarter restart are about $1.05 billion.

Spot rents on the building go from about $80 at the base to in excess of $100 at the top and our expense budget including taxes will be in the low 30s once the building is fully assessed and opened.

We have two entitlement development sites in Cambridge. The first is a 250,000 square-foot development which shares a parcel with our West garage.

The Broad Institute has agreed to purchase this site and hire Boston Properties to develop a building. In total we will receive payments totaling $56 million.

The sale is being structured as part of our 1031 exchange which will allow us to retain the proceeds. We will also be managing the building on a long-term basis once it is completed.

Our site at 17 Cambridge Center has been designed to accommodate a 200,000 square-foot office or lab building. Last week, we signed a letter of intent with a tenant that is committed to the entire development as an office use with a total cost of approximately $88 million.

If this transaction moves forward, we would be under construction by the end of the first quarter 2012 with a delivery by July 1, 2013. Now before I turn the call over to Mike, I did want to make just a few comments on our Princeton disposition.

We've owned Carnegie Center from almost 13 years. When we purchased the asset, we had hoped to avail ourselves of the opportunity to develop almost 2 million square feet of additional space.

The Princeton market has been very stable but has not exhibited the conditions necessary to achieve this objective. We have been able to grow our portfolio in other markets and if we complete the sale, we will redeploy our capital.

Our Princeton team has continually outperformed the market and we have consistently achieved premium rents and lower vacancy, and I want to publicly thank them for all they have done to create value for Boston Properties shareholders. We've entered into a contract and as outlined in our press release, we structured the purchase of the Hancock Tower as a reverse like kind exchange that gives us the flexibility to sell the assets and retain the capital.

It is the intent of the parties to close this transaction inside a 180-day period mandated by the IRS regulations around 1031 which ends at the end of June. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Mike.

MIKE LABELLE, SVP AND CFO, BOSTON PROPERTIES: Thanks, Doug. Good morning, everybody. I just want to start by briefly talking about the state of the capital markets which have strengthened.

The debt markets remain active to real estate companies like ours and lenders are really seeking good opportunities to invest today. The corporate bond market is stable, our spreads are in the 140 basis point range and that results in borrowing costs in the 4.75% area today for a ten-year term.

On the mortgage side, lenders have become more aggressive and spreads have come in approximately 25 basis points in the last quarter since we last spoke. We are seeing spreads in both the insurance company and CMBS markets in the 150 to 175 basis point range at leverage points from 50 to 70% of value.

The success of new securitization offerings have given confidence to CMBS originators and added to the competitive environment, and we believe it's likely to result in further spread compression. The banks are also actively lending again in the three- to seven-year term financing market and once again pursuing construction loans for well-conceived development projects. The convertible debt market is also open to us with coupons of 1 to 1.5% at strike price premiums of 20 to 25%.

We are in the final stages of documenting the commitment application for the refinancing of our $450 million expiring mortgage loan on 601 Lexington Avenue. We expect to close a $725 million 10.5 year year mortgage financing in June with pricing in the 5% area.

We plan to utilize our line of credit to preserve the mortgage tax and provide bridge funding from the existing loans expiration date on May 11 until we close the new loan. The only other mortgages coming due in 2011 are two loans totaling $135 million on our joint venture value fund properties in Mountain View, California. Our share of these mortgages is just $54 million and we are in discussions with the lenders for extensions of up to three years.

We are finalizing terms for a construction loan to refinance and fund the development of our 500 North Capital St. joint venture development. As we noted in our press release, we signed a pre-lease in this development for 75% of the space with a major law firm. The interest from the bank market for this financing opportunity has been strong and we expect to close in early summer.

In addition we're concluding the negotiation of a three-year extension of our corporate revolving credit facility that currently expires in August of this year. We anticipate downsizing the facility to $750 million and closing in early June.

Overall, our balance sheet remains in great shape. As we noted in our press release we completed the $185 million acquisition of Bay Colony Corporate Center in February.

Combining that with 510 Madison Avenue and the John Hancock Tower, we have now added $1.5 billion of new investments to our balance sheet. To maintain ample capacity, to continue to opportunistically invest in both potential acquisitions as well as new developments, we have layered in an additional $400 million of common equity issued under our At the Market equity program. We believe that an ATM program is an excellent tool and should remain a financing option in the future to assist us in managing our leverage position as we make new investments.

Today both our corporate leverage and liquidity positions are strong, giving us dry powder for new investments. As of quarter-end, we had unrestricted cash balances of $750 million and assuming the closing of the 601 Lexington Ave. financing and the sale of our Carnegie Center portfolio and the Broad Institute land, our cash balance will increase to nearly $1.5 billion.

Now I would like to spend a few minutes discussing our first-quarter earnings results. Last night we reported first-quarter funds from operations of $1.12 per share after accounting for $0.015 of dilution related to the 3.7 million shares of common stock issued during the quarter. Our FFO was up just over $0.06 per share above the midpoint of our guidance or approximately $10 million.

In our operating portfolio we exceeded our projections by $6 million with $4 million coming from rental revenue and $2 million in operating expense savings. The revenue outperformance came from the early occupancy of 450,000 square feet by Wellington at Atlantic Wharf where we brought the building into service two weeks early and started recognizing income of close to $1 million ahead of our budget.

We also generated $1.5 million from a number of early lease commencements across the portfolio and $500,000 from better than projected parking revenue. Lastly, we generated termination income of $2 million from cashing of a security deposit related to a defaulting law firm at 601 Lexington Ave. that Doug mentioned. This income was offset by the write-off of the tenant's straight-line rent and receivable balance and the net impact of the termination to the quarter was positive $600,000.

As Doug described, the demand for this space is strong with several tenants showing interest before it was even on the market, and we are in active negotiations with a replacement tenant now. On the expense side, we received our final fiscal year 2011 tax assessments in several markets that were lower than we expected resulting in $800,000 of savings.

Other expense savings related to our delaying some repair and maintenance to later in the year at slightly lower than projected utilities expense. Our development and management services fee income came in $1 million above our budget.

Half of the outperformance is due to higher than expected tenant service fees such as overtime HVAC usage and other work orders coming out of New York which is a noticeable change in our tenants' work habits. The remainder comes from a new multiyear development fee associated with an assignment to develop a new science center for George Washington University in Washington DC.

Our JV portfolio produced $1.4 million of FFO above our budget. The majority of this is due to the continued growth in sales at the Apple store.

As Apple announced recently, company sales were up over 80% and the Apple store at the GM building was no exception with sales double our projections, resulting in percentage rent outperformance of $800,000. The remaining variance came from higher tenant service income again and operating expense savings.

Our G&A expenses beat budget by about $1 million due primarily to savings in our projected acquisition expenses with final costs associated with the John Hancock Tower and Bay Colony acquisitions coming in lower than expected and we also had various other miscellaneous G&A related savings. One last note on our income statement, our depreciation expense was up pretty significantly this quarter by $27 million.

This is due to the additions of the John Hancock Tower and Bay Colony as well as bringing into service a part of our development pipeline. In addition, we are accelerating some of the depreciation in our Lockheed Martin buildings in Reston as we prepare to take them out of service for redevelopment for the DIA.

As we look forward to the rest of 2011, we project our same-store portfolio performance to improve with the activity we are seeing in the leasing markets. We are also outperforming our projected leasing guidance at 510 Madison and the Hancock Tower and we've been awarded two significant fee income assignments. These positives are offset by the dilution associated with issuing 4.2 million shares of common equity and the loss of income should be successfully closed on the sale of Carnegie Center.

A significant portion of our same-store improvement is in the Boston region where we've seen faster than expected absorption. For example in Cambridge Center, we completed a 60,000 square foot expansion with Google at 3 Cambridge Center and are working on a number of smaller leases in 1 Cambridge Center.

In the suburbs, we continue to see good activity and are now projecting 75,000 square feet of additional leasing that was previously projected to occur later in the year or in 2012. In the same-store portfolio we expect our full-year 2011 NOI to be up 5.5 to 6.5% on a cash basis and down 0.5% to 1.5% on a GAAP basis from 2010. This is an improvement of 50 basis points and 100 basis points respectively from our guidance last quarter with a portion of the improvement realized in the first quarter.

Although the decline in our GAAP same-store NOI is narrowing,, we are still faced with several large lease rollovers that impact our occupancy. As expected this quarter we lost 100 basis points of occupancy in our same-store with 260,000 square feet of space in our Zanker Road project in San Jose and 130,000 square feet of space in Reston Overlook from the downsizing of Northrop Grumman.

In addition we brought Bay Colony corporate center into the portfolio at 65% leased driving the overall portfolio occupancy down to 91.7% this quarter. Our quarter to quarter same-store occupancy was down just 80 basis points to 92.4%.

Near-term declines in the same-store include the expiration of Lockheed Martin in 264,000 square feet in Reston where as I mentioned we will remove the building from service for redevelopment for the Defense Intelligence Agency. This will cost $2.2 million of rental income each quarter starting in June of this year until we deliver the space to DIA in late 2012.

In addition, we will have downtime at 111 Huntington Ave. upon Bain Capital's 207,000 square-foot lease expiration in September until the commencement of the MFS lease for this space at the beginning of 2012. At Embarcadero Center 4 in San Francisco, we will lose 190,000 square feet of occupancy in the second half of the year paying current rents of approximately $96 per foot.

For the remainder of 2011, we had 1.9 million square feet of leases expiring which if you exclude the leases at Embarcadero Center 4 are roughly at market. As we have stated before, our cash same-store NOI is up year over year due to the burn-off of free rents associated with our 2010 leasing program.

We project our straight-line rent for this portfolio to be $17 million in 2011 versus $80 million in 2010. Straight-line rent and FASB 141 rent for the remainder of the wholly-owned portfolio including our developments is projected to be $62 million to $67 million.

At the Hancock Tower, which is not in the same-store, we are projecting 2011 NOI to the approximately $2 million ahead of our budget, a portion of which came in the first quarter due to the combination of better than projected absorption and lease rates plus slightly lower than anticipated operating expenses. Our hotel was in line with our budget and breakeven in the first quarter.

We still projected to generate $8 million to $8.5 million of NOI for the year. We do not include termination income in our same-store results and are now projecting $5 million in termination income for 2011, significantly less than the $13 million we recognized in 2010.

Our 2011 projection is $1 million higher than our guidance last quarter due to the outperformance in the first quarter. As Doug detailed, we're starting to deliver our development pipeline with the office components of Atlantic Wharf and 2200 Pennsylvania Ave. opening in the first quarter.

Additionally we will be delivering 510 Madison Ave. this quarter and continue to see good leasing activity. We're increasing the estimated contribution to our NOI from our developments in 2011 to $35 million to $38 million. This excludes our Weston Corporate Center development that was completed in mid-2010 and will contribute $15 million in 2011.

Now that these projects are nearly complete, you will note in our supplemental report we've reduced our budgeted total investment by $30 million to reflect cost savings for the development. Although these developments are delivering in 2011, we do not project them to stabilize until mid to late 2012, and at stabilization, we project this $1.3 billion of invested capital to generate an unleveraged cash return of approximately 7.1%.

We project the contribution to FFO from our joint venture portfolio to be $130 million to $135 million which includes $70 million in FASB 141 fair value lease income. In the last few quarters, we have been describing the runoff in our fee income due to the completion of several fee development jobs in 2010.

Our regional teams have done a great job of rebuilding our base with two large fee assignments being awarded this quarter. In addition to the work we're doing for George Washington University, in Cambridge we will be constructing a new 250,000 square-foot lab building for the Broad Institute.

In aggregate we will generate nearly $20 million in fee income from these projects over the next three to four years. For 2011 we increased the projected contribution from our development in management services income business by $5 million to $25 million to $30 million.

For G&A, we expect an expense of $80 million to $82 million for the year in line with our guidance last quarter. We are projecting our net interest expense to be $403 million to $408 million for the year.

This is lower than our guidance last quarter as we are now projecting our 601 Lexington Ave. financing to price in the 5% area down from 5.5% last quarter. We anticipate placing this financing on a line of credit for 30 days to 60 days saving an additional 400 basis points over this time period. Our interest income will be higher than our prior projections with the additional cash proceeds from our equity raising and disposition activities.

Our interest expense assumptions include $32 million to $36 million of capitalized interest. We've not assumed a restart of our 250 W. 55th St. development in our capitalized interest projections. If we were to commence redevelopment, we would immediately start capitalizing interest on the $480 million that we have currently invested at our average cost of capital of about 5.5%.

The NOI from Carnegie Center is included in the same-store projections I described earlier, and if we are successful in our sales effort, it will have an impact on our same-store results as well as our portfolio occupancy. Carnegie is currently 86.6% occupied and we are projecting an average occupancy for the year of approximately 83%.

Assuming we close in late June and reinvest the proceeds in short-term cash deposits, the 2011 dilution is approximately $0.09 per share. The projected GAAP gain of $124 million for Carnegie Center will show up in our net income and earnings per share as we note in the EPS guidance we provided in our press release. Due to the structure of the Broad Institute transaction, it's gain on sale will be deferred to a later year in accordance with GAAP.

After considering all of these factors including the dilution from our equity issuance and the sale of Carnegie Center, our full-year 2011 FFO guidance is now $4.45 to $4.55 per share. For the second quarter, we project funds from operation of $1.18 to $1.20 per share which includes the interest savings from temporarily financing 601 for Lexington Avenue on our line of credit.

Additionally, our second-quarter FFO was higher than the first quarter due to the seasonality of our hotel and the $4 million one-time G&A charge taken in the first quarter associated with the termination of our old outperformance plan. As we have described, we are seeing sustained improvement in tour activity and leasing velocity in nearly all of our markets.

Our regional teams have done a terrific job the last couple of years mining for third-party development fee opportunities during a timeframe when starting our own new developments was unwarranted. These efforts are now paying off with our winning the new development management contracts that I mentioned.

This is resulting in better than projected absorption in our portfolio and higher than projected fee income, positively impacting our FFO guidance. So despite the $0.18 per share of dilution associated with raising $400 million of equity and selling our Carnegie Center portfolio, we're able to maintain the low end of our previous guidance. That completes our formal remarks. Operator, you can open the lines up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jim Sullivan, Cowen and Company.

JIM SULLIVAN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Guys, I have a two-part question on San Francisco. Doug, in your prepared comments, you summarized very active leasing activity on the part of several large tenants, technology driven tenants, and I'm just curious as you think about that market whether the -- and you stress of course your exposure being in North of Market rather than Soma. I just wonder if you -- as you look at how that market is developing whether you are tempted to consider development opportunities in the Soma district.

And then the second part of the question is in the North of Market district, do you anticipate that you will see technology firm demand in that market or is it simply waiting for related professional and financial service tenants to -- demand to expand?

DOUG LINDE: I will take a stab at this and Bob, you sir can correct me or add on if you think I'm being too simpleminded in the way I'm thinking about this. When you think about the South of Market market from a technology perspective, for the most part, those are tenants that are relatively small that are looking at older brick and beam warehouse renovated buildings and they are looking at them for two purposes.

One is there is I guess a unique character about what the workspace looks like. And two and probably as importantly, they are relatively inexpensive. So they are all being leased at rates that are -- I'm being a little bit obtuse about this -- but somewhere in the mid to high 30s, sort of where rents are.

And the question of new development in that particular market is I think sort of not part of the equation because the type of cost associated with new development and the type of density that would be required to make sense of it would preclude those types of tenants from getting both that funky type space that they are currently at least seem to be enamored with and the pricing would be significantly different.

With regards to North of Market, there are three or four what I would refer to as mature technology companies that have made the leap across or pretty close to North of Market, salesforce.com being one, Google being a second. Those two are in the Hills Coffee former building as well as 1 Market Street.

So there is a technology tilt to certain tenants that have gone to that market. But for the most part, the tenants that are most active today are tenants that are probably at least in terms of what they're thinking about from an infancy to maturity perspective not ready to be in a 30-story high-rise office tower with other tenants who are wearing jackets and ties or at least clothing with an attitude that is different than what you are seeing, quite frankly in the types of places that they're looking at when they look at South of Market.

Bob, do you have anything to add?

BOB PESTER, SVP AND REGIONAL MANAGER, SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE, BOSTON PROPERTIES: Yes, I would just say if you take out the Zynga transaction which was 250,000 square feet, most of the activity that has been in Multimedia Gulch has been substantially smaller transactions or shared space transactions.

Doug referred to the North of Market tenants as more mature. I call them grown-up tenants and that includes Microsoft which also has space right across the street from us in the Landmark at 1 market.

JIM SULLIVAN: Okay, one other question for me, concerns the Route 128 submarket. The Carnegie Center portfolio albeit it outperformed in its submarket generally lagged the overall portfolio I would say over the last 10 years.

There are segments of your Route 128 portfolio that have I would say relatively speaking underperformed as well. I wonder if you are considering any culling if you will of that portfolio at all?

DOUG LINDE: I would say that if you look at Route 128 portfolio, that portion of the portfolio has actually outperformed the suburban marketplace in a very significant way. Some of our Route 3 properties I would say have been laggards and that's largely because companies from Cambridge and the companies that are being backed by the venture capitalists who are located in Waltham Marketplace or now in the city or in Cambridge tend to want to locate those companies as close to the (inaudible) of 128 and the Mass Pike as possible.

And our portfolio has sort of -- I would say we have become more and more focused in our approach to where we have owned and where we've put capital into our suburban campus so that I would say 90% of our portfolio from a capital perspective is between Lexington and Waltham and now Westin with the one property down south which is 140 Kendrick St. And that's really what I'd say our focus is in. And if there's going to be some culling which there may be, it would be the stuff that is sort of to the north of 128 which is either in Bedford or in Andover or in Chelmsford, places like that.

OPERATOR: Alex Goldfarb, Sandler O'Neill.

ALEX GOLDFARB, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Just a question, my first question is on New York. With the recent WilmerHale departure to downtown and the possibility for Conde Nast day to potentially sign a deal down there, you think if both of those -- well the WilmerHale but do you think that would fundamentally change the way Midtown Midtown tenants will start to look at downtown or do you think that Midtown will always be the preferred place?

DOUG LINDE: Mort, do you want to take that one?

MORT ZUCKERMAN: Yes, I mean, look, I still think Midtown will be the preferred place by a wide margin. People going downtown have a very different concern. One of them is the rents are going to be significantly lower and people are much more sensitive to that issue.

And two is there are a lot of -- downtown has become a much more vibrant community if I may say so with a tremendous amount of activity and sort of the new technologies of our current era taking place there. We're getting a -- New York City is a tremendous beneficiary of that, both the atmosphere of that place and the attraction of it for the kind of younger people in the world of technology and it's where they want to work.

So I think that portion of it is definitely going to be for the benefit of the downtown area. However, it's still much less accessible in certain important ways for a lot of the people whom we generally tend to cater to in the Midtown area and particularly in the best buildings of the Midtown area.

I don't think there's going to be that much of an effect on our real estate, but I think it will -- what you were referring to definitely will have some effect on the overall Midtown market. We still think all the major users are by and large going to stay in the Midtown area for all kinds of reasons particularly relating to where their main employees work.

DOUG LINDE: I also would note one other thing, Alex, which is when Wilmer Cutler went on their journey for space, they initially landed on a building on the Midtown West side actually at Worldwide Plaza. And ultimately we're I would say within a stone's throw of doing a transaction there and then we're basically pushed aside for a larger tenant and we are unable to consummate a deal there, and then looked downtown. So it wasn't a we want to go downtown for business purposes first. It was we weren't able to find what we were looking for from either a price or a space perspective in Midtown Manhattan and they ultimately went there from a secondary perspective.

ALEX GOLDFARB: Okay, so whereas you guys had considered 1 World Trade before, that's still in your thinking that decision was still a one-off. You would not start to look downtown would you for possible investment?

MORT ZUCKERMAN: By and large, no, I think that was a one-off investment for sure and an interesting one, I might add. But in part it was a one-off because it was being so dramatically subsidized by every government agency in North America and probably some in South America.

So I think that was a very, very specific situation. And I think it should work out well for the people who ended up doing the development because (inaudible) so I do think that was definitely a one-off. We have not really been focusing or looking in that area.

ALEX GOLDFARB: And my second question is for Mike. You guys use the ATM obviously a good amount year to date. Two part to this.

One, is there anymore ATM in your guidance perhaps under a new program? And then two, given that you guys are going to presumably close Carnegie, close Broad and then you had about $500 million of cash as of the end of the fourth quarter, what drove your ATM -- what was the decision to use the ATM.

MIKE LABELLE: Alex, we really looked at the Company's fixed charge ratios and leverage ratios and we did $1.5 billion of new investment and we thought it was prudent for the Company a little bit of equity to match up with that asset investment. I think that going forward, we're going to look at what our opportunity set is for making new investments and we will consider and make decisions about future equity raises depending on what those opportunities are as we look into the marketplace.

I think that we have experienced the use of the ATM, we're happy with the way it worked. I think that as I mentioned in my comments, it's prudent for us to have that tool of capital raising available to us in our arsenal so that if we are in a position where we do want to raise a little bit of equity that we can use it if we want. So that's really how we look at it. If we find additional opportunities to invest new capital, we're going to evaluate our balance sheet and our leverage at that time.

MORT ZUCKERMAN: Let me add something to that, okay? We are not out of the expansion business here. We're going to be continuously looking at opportunities.

And frankly, the larger scale opportunities will be a little bit more attractive to those who can move quickly and have the capital to move, and we're going to keep ourselves in a position where we have enough powder to do just that. I think we had the chance to make some wonderful acquisitions last year and we're not going to stop looking at that whether they be development opportunities or existing buildings. And we're certainly going to continue those efforts.

OPERATOR: Steve Sakwa, ISI Group.

STEVE SAKWA, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Mort, I was wondering if you could just address the West side opportunities. A number of your peers are getting ready to either start construction on some platforms or talking about doing some built to suits. So I'm just wondering how you think about the West side as additional competition coming into Midtown.

MORT ZUCKERMAN: Look, I don't think the West side has the same stature as the shall we say the Upper Eastside of New York City. By that I mean from the mid-40s to the 70s up on the East side. But you have a gain, let me just say, certainly a sensitivity to price on a certain part of the market and a lot of people looking for new space.

I forget the number, but we have a large number, a very large number, I mean better than -- in double digits of large-scale tenants of 100,000 square feet or higher who are going to be looking for space in the next several years. And those of us who follow that market would like to get there with the right kind of product.

There will be those that will not want to leave the East side and there will be some who will. All I can say is that if you are -- from our point of view, we're still going to stay in buildings whether we build them or buy them that we think are in a very upper end of the market.

That is a strategy that works extremely well and has worked extremely well during the downturn. Everybody does well when everything is booming, but we find these buildings continue to do relatively much better when there is a downturn and knowing the cyclicality of the business we are in, we always plan for that and prepare for that.

We think there will be opportunities for us to buy things and we are definitely going to need -- if we want to be able to get some of the best buildings, a lot of them are going to be in very, very big numbers and we want to be prepared for it. The West side is an area we would be open to.

I think we're a little bit less confident about its future than we are in the East side but I think both of them are going to do well. New York City has come through this particular downturn as we all know remarkably well.

We are frankly surprised on the upside at just how well it has done. There's a lot of growth going on on the East side. It's not to say that people are not going to be conscious about rents, but I think you're going to see a lot of growth and I think you're going to see some real pressure of demand on supply in the next couple of years and it's a long-term sort of business develop program that we have and we're going to just be focused on all of that.

STEVE SAKWA: Okay and maybe you could just address I guess some of the issues down in Washington. I know there's a few generally by most real estate professionals down in the district that the government just will never really cut the workforce and that when they say cut, they really just mean slow growth. I mean do you really believe that it's not going to change or do you think maybe it is different this time in terms of how the government will think about its workforce?

MORT ZUCKERMAN: I would put it this way. I think the government will make some token cuts in various areas, but on balance, those cuts will be relatively minor compared to the just natural growth that they have out of all the various programs that they are in.

It's hard for me to imagine the government is really going to be cutting back. There will be some cutbacks without question, but they will be I think more political and symbolic than real.

We don't -- we think Washington is just in very good shape. We're doing very, very well there. We are looking for sites or acquisitions but particularly for sites to do development.

I just went through in great detail our development along Pennsylvania Avenue. It's just a huge success meet both on the residential side and on the commercial side. And that is the kind of thing that -- where we are able to build not just to the upper end of the market.

I would say that building both on the commercial and the residential side is just seven league boots ahead of almost everything else that's being done in Washington. And it will be received as such. It is being received as such.

And that's where we think we can do best. And we intend to continue looking for sites where we can continue to do that quality work.

That's going to be just a huge success for us. So that sort of just gives us even more impetus to continue in that vein. We think we're going to find some sites, we hopefully will, and continue working in that particular sort of bracket.

OPERATOR: Jeff Spector, BofA.

JEFF SPECTOR, ANALYST, BAS-ML: I guess just one follow-up on DC. I'm here with Jamie as well.

Jamie and I were actually thinking that given some peers are talking about now entering DC or doing more in DC, is it a good time to get a little bit more aggressive on disposing some properties there? Is that incorrect thinking?

MORT ZUCKERMAN: I don't think we approach it that way, to be honest with you. Look, we've got a lot of great assets in DC, probably the best pool of assets that anybody owns in DC.

And I do think that there is a revival shall we say to some extent at least in terms of what we have seen. There's a lot of growth in the DC market.

We don't want to sell assets into that kind of a market. We frankly want to hold assets or buy assets in that kind of a market because we think the longer-term values are embedded in that market.

And we don't think -- look, there is a real supply constraint on that market which is called a height limit in terms of how high you can build. That automatically limits the amount of space you can put on. In most projects, it means you have to find big sites if you want to develop large projects.

So the assets that we have, we're very happy with the assets we have. We don't think we ought to sell them. We think they're very good long-term holds. And that is still the basic part of our business which is to have outstanding assets and hold them for the long term.

JEFF SPECTOR: Good answer, Mort.

Alright, thanks. We felt Ray's hand (multiple speakers)

MORT ZUCKERMAN: (multiple speakers) that voice sounded very much like Ray Ritchie.

JEFF SPECTOR: We felt his hand come through the speakerphone. I guess maybe thinking about the markets, any markets you regret not trying to enter over the last couple of years like LA? It seems the stock market at least is predicting a big return for fundamentals in that market.

MORT ZUCKERMAN: Well, I'm sure there are markets that we would like to have been in but again, in LA there is one part of it -- the downtown LA market is not a market that really appeals to us by and large. You generally have what I would describe by and large as commodity space there.

We just prefer to focus in on those kinds of buildings that set themselves apart from the rest of the market in qualitative terms. And there are certain parts of that market where you might have -- in West LA for example. But it's very difficult to work there, to assemble sites or even to assemble buildings there.

So we just have not yet found a way to break in. We've tried a couple of times and frankly we haven't succeeded.

But we are -- there isn't a market that we wouldn't be interested in if we thought it met the criteria that I have more or less tried to outline. And there are markets -- Seattle might be a market for example that would be interesting. But for the moment, I think we are really not looking aggressively in these markets and perhaps we should but frankly we've been kind of busy.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you and this is Jamie with a final question. Can you guys just give us an update on how you're thinking about the end of 2Q and what it means for treasury rates and what it eventually means for cap rates?

MORT ZUCKERMAN: Oh, boy, well, let me take a crack at that and, Doug, if you would mind joining in, I would appreciate it. I think the end of QE2 is certainly going to affect interest rates at some point.

The Fed will still do whatever they can -- if you saw the Bernanke interview -- whatever they could to make sure that interest rates stay low because monetary policy is about the only thing we can do. There is certainly going to be pressure on the fiscal deficit side of the equation.

So I don't think the kind of fiscal stimulus that we have seen is going to continue. The stimulus program itself that was that special one of $870 billion is basically going to run out of money sometime this year.

We are faced with real headwinds because of higher energy costs, higher food costs, declining home equity because of declining home prices. It's very difficult to see a major upturn in the economy unless business begins to start spending the kind of money they have accumulated to expand.

There will be some of that but I have to say, I think the business community is still very, very cautious and I think they will be very careful about the capacity. So I don't see that there's going to be pressure in the economy, upward pressure in the economy of any significant levels.

I think we're going to have a very anemic recovery. There's been -- you have to think about the fact that we are in a very slow growth economy.

We after all had a 1.8% growth in GDP in the first quarter and if you took out inventory which is a one-shot operation there, it was down to 0.8. We need substantially more than that to begin to have any impact on the unemployment numbers.

We'll see whether that comes about. I still remain very cautious about how the economy is going to do because we have to think about where we would normally be given the amount of fiscal stimulus and monetary policy and bailout policy that we've had.

You compare this to sort of the trajectory of any previous recovery in a recession and it's way below -- it would've been somewhere between 6 and 7% growth in GDP at this point, 20 to 22 months beyond the trough of recession. We are nowhere close to that.

So I don't know where this goes. We are in an unprecedented time which is therefore unpredictable. But what is known is that this is a recession as we all know and the Great Recession they are calling it because it's the worst one we've had.

But it was provoked by a financial crisis and none of the recessions since the end of World War II were provoked by that kind of financial crisis. There still is a sense in the country that particularly the consumer is over-indebted.

The relationship of household debt to household income is still much higher than it typically is coming out of a recession. We still have a household debt that's somewhere around 150% of household income. The typical range is between 70 and 80%.

To get down to those levels, we're going to have to have a liquidation or a deleveraging of another $5 trillion to $6 trillion. That's bound to put pressure on the willingness of the consumer to spend when he looks or she looks at the equity they have in their home and decide what they're going to spend and look at the debts they have.

So at this point we're doing relatively well, I must say. I just don't know how long it's going to take to really get this economy really working on all cylinders.

And I think it's going to be a very slow process, so I don't think interest rates are going to go up very much even without QE2. I think they used QE2 to try and frankly restimulate home values and stock values.

They succeeded in one but not in the other. There's a huge oversupply of residences on the market.

Either of ones that are occupied that are on the market, the ones that aren't occupied that are on the market, those that are in delinquent or in some level of foreclosure. I mean it's a gigantic number, way more than we anticipate.

So I don't see the housing market getting better for quite a while. I think with unemployment still being strong and employment being week, consumer attitudes being quite pessimistic, housing still in the doldrums, a cutback in fiscal stimulus, I think we're going to have a very interesting time.

I just don't know. It's just unpredictable how it's going to go. You can't go into this with a total level of confidence. At least that's the way I feel.

Many of you have heard me say to probably the boredom of the listener, but as I keep on saying, the optimist thinks this is the best of all possible worlds and the pessimist fears they may be right.

DOUG LINDE: Just to sort of -- I'd add to sort of more practical you know Boston Properties perspectives which is we raised an awful lot of debt last year. We raised that debt because we liked where rates were.

We didn't think rates were going down and we are doing another $750 million issuance as Mike described. Again we think that where rates are today is a good place to be borrowing.

If we thought rates were going down, we would probably have a different perspective. We don't think rates are going down. There has been a 120 to 150 basis point increase in rate since we did our last bond deal.

I don't think it has had any impact on cap rates for our CBD office buildings in Washington DC, Boston, New York City or San Francisco. I think that the yield, a vacuum that appears to be all across the investment perspective is a bigger force in driving capital to real estate at the moment.

And there are investors who are taking an exceedingly long-term perspective at least in terms of how they're underwriting and reviewing their acceptable yields on office buildings, single assets in places like New York City and Washington DC because if they aren't, then we don't understand how things are being priced.

And I think that has a lot to do with being comfortable that while over time there will be an improvement in operating fundamentals that will be generated into changes in the cash flow for the good, they are prepared to live with what we would probably have considered two years ago to be abnormally low returns for an exceedingly long period of time looking like a not bad place to put capital when there are now banks who don't want to take deposits any longer and are paying out dividends as opposed to taking in deposits. It's just that the perspective in terms of where the money flows are and where you can pick up yields are so unusual today that I think they are allowing interest rate rises to be ignored by people who are purchasing real estate and even people who are purchasing real estate with a significant degree of leverage.

OPERATOR: Mitch Germain, JMP Securities.

MITCH GERMAIN, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: Just curious about your decision to downsize the revolver.

MIKE LABELLE: Sure, I'll cover that one. As you probably recall, we went for a really, really long time with a revolver that was $600 million or actually $605 million I think it was. We were very, very comfortable at that level and operated just fine.

The only reason we increased it to $1 billion was we were in 2008 and we saw the difficulty in the credit markets and we thought it was a pretty good idea since we had this accordion feature to increase our sources of capital which we did. We have analyzed our expected working capital needs and our strategies for funding things like our development over the next few years and we feel like we have got good access to other capital markets, consistent access and diverse access and that a $750 million line is plenty of size for us to deal with any kind of working capital we may have.

We will expect to have another accordion feature. So to the extent that there is demand from other institutions to provide us with that type of credit, we could increase it. In the future, we expect to have that feature, but we thought 750 was the right number.

MITCH GERMAIN: Great, and just one final question. Your G&A Mike, does that include the transaction related costs and any litigation charges?

MIKE LABELLE: No, it includes acquisition costs associated with Bay Colony in the first quarter, it includes kind of what our normal legal costs are that are in G&A and things like that. But it does not assume any material future acquisition expenses or litigation expenses because we don't expect to have any litigation expenses, that is.

OPERATOR: Michael Knott, Green Street Advisors.

MICHAEL KNOTT, ANALYST, GREEN STREET ADVISORS: Can you talk about your view of risk-adjusted returns for acquisitions versus development? It seems like your capital allocation profile has shifted pretty substantially and I am wondering if -- is it that your risk appetite is higher or maybe more that acquisition pricing is now richer?

DOUG LINDE: I will start and I will let Mort jump in if he has something slightly different to add. I would say that when we look at our development program and the amount of return that we think we can generate from the developments on what I would consider in most places to be modest risk relative to what the leasing profile of those assets will be relative to where the market is, we think that that is a clearly much higher cash on cash current return and therefore a much higher IRR and much higher total rate of return over a long period of time.

At the moment what we have seen come on the market from an acquisition perspective has been priced down to levels that are significantly lower than what we are describing in our development pipeline and I don't think the risks are marginally lower for what those returns are. I think others have probably talked about the building on 7th Avenue that is being sold and there is an asset with a yield that is I'm guessing slightly below 5% for an extended period of time.

And we're talking more than five or more than 10 years potentially depending upon what tenants choose to do. And that is the profile, seemingly the profile of many of the assets that we are seeing on the market today or we're seeing assets in certain markets where the cost per square foot is in excess of what the replacement cost would be at least for us on sites that we might have that are tangentially close to where those buildings are and where we think we can generate hundreds of basis points more in return on an incremental cash on cash basis from the out of the blocks.

My point being at Market Square, you look at that building and we looked at where price -- and we looked at what our development opportunity might be at 601 Mass. Ave. and said well we can build a building for a couple hundred dollars a square foot less than this and we can generate a yield that's hundreds of basis points higher, hard for us to get excited about deploying capital into that asset at that time in the marketplace given what our opportunity set is.

MICHAEL KNOTT: Okay that's helpful, and then just one other question. In the last cycle you guys sold a couple of core BXP quality buildings in New York. Just curious how you think about those sales in hindsight sort of in the context of cap rates declining significantly kind of without the benefit of significant embedded rent growth at this point.

MORT ZUCKERMAN: The buildings we sold in New York were sold at phenomenal prices. I mean we sold two buildings in New York. One of them was at I think a 3.76% cap rate with an assumption of 100% of the space being leased including the modest amount of vacant space.

And we were very happy with the prices we got for both of those buildings. And frankly, I don't think the market even though there has been some shall we say recovery in the market has come back to the prices where we were, where we were able to realize those.

So I think we -- in fact I would say that was true of virtually every asset we sold. We sold assets based on the following simple principles.

We like to have A assets in A locations. The assets we sold we thought were either B assets in A locations or A assets in B locations. And that was a very specific program that we had underway.

We thought we did very, very well with them. We did it at the right time. I don't know, we took out something -- we sold in the range of at least $4.5 billion in assets.

We could not be happier with the program that we had at that point. It gave us a great deal of liquidity.

It is one thing to be able to buy buildings, its another thing to be able to sell them at the right time and we thought we did that. So I don't think we have any reservations about what we did and frankly, we are going to just keep a pragmatic view going forward in terms of whether we buy or whether we sell.

OPERATOR: Michael Bilerman, Citigroup.

MICHAEL BILERMAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: On the asset disposition side, Mort, I guess from your perspective of DC and New York, it sounds like much more long-term holds of the assets that you have. But does that exclude potentially selling interest in assets that take advantage of where the pricing market is of assets?

While I can appreciate the fundamentals are not going back towards peak in your view right away, the asset pricing seems quite rich. Instead of getting rid of the whole asset, why not rid of part of an asset? And I'm curious whether you're being approached sort of off market for people to buy your assets or buy an interest in the assets.

MORT ZUCKERMAN: Sure, we're always being approached. As I say, when I looked at the asset sort of inventory that we have, to be honest with you, virtually every asset that we have I would like to buy, not to sell.

So we are frankly looking to add to our portfolio of assets. We just don't want to take -- look, we're in this kind of business for the long haul in terms of accumulating a portfolio of the highest quality assets that we can possibly put together.

And as I tried to use by way of a reference -- this is not a perfect analogy. We try to have A assets in A locations, and sometimes their values will go up and sometimes they will go down. But as long-term holds, we find that these are the best assets.

And when I look back upon the assets that we had and have and those that we sold, you see what the valuation is that we were able to sell the assets in the past when we had a bull market for it. But in the long haul it seems to me that our basic business is putting together sort of an outstanding list of A assets in A locations and holding them for the long haul.

We believe that over time, these assets are frankly going to be irreplaceable and that in any five or ten-year period, we will look back on these assets as holds and be very happy that we held them. And we see it even in this market, that that's why we went after the Hancock building, that's why we went after 510 Madison Avenue etc. and that's why we're going to continue to look into additional acquisitions because that's a part of what we do and do well and intend to continue doing it.

I don't have any second thoughts about the assets we sold nor about the assets we keep. We're still going to be looking over time to buy assets and to build assets of the quality that we have specialized in for quite a few decades now. And we will just have to see how it goes. I'm not saying it's going to be easy but we're definitely going to be continuing along those lines.

MICHAEL BILERMAN: Maybe you could just delve a little bit deeper into in terms of the large boxes of space in New York in terms of tenants booking and I think, Doug, you referenced in DC the law firms contracting. And I'm just curious, of the tenants that are looking forward to 2013-2014 expirations, how much of that is sort of flat space, how much of that is sort of expansions of their space going forward?

DOUG LINDE: You are talking about in New York City, Michael?

MICHAEL BILERMAN: Yes, I was just referencing what you talked about on the DC side.

DOUG LINDE: So the majority of the tenants that we are having conversations with in New York City are law firms who are making lateral moves because they have lease expirations. So you have a tenant who has got either a 2012 or 2013 or 2014 lease expiration and they're trying to figure out what they should do.

In some cases they have the rights to extend for a period of time. So a building like 250 W. 55th St. can work and in other cases, they may have to do something sooner than that.

And then there are some financial services institutions that are growing. And so they are both some quote unquote typical bulge bracket institutions that are having gotten through what occurred between late 2007 and 2010 are starting to at least expand or think about expanding their footprint, and others who are growing their businesses because they are changing the profile of what they are doing.

And we are talking to those types of tenants. And interestingly enough, and I think it's somewhat of a surprise, there are some larger privately held financial institutions, hedge funds, asset managers etc. who are on the west side who are looking at what we have to offer at the top of the building and are saying, geez, would Boston Properties consider doing the lease today at the top portion of the building and it's actually an interesting question that we are wrestling with which is would we lease the space today or would we rather wait for that portion of the building to lease the space in smaller tenants; meaning 75,000, 100,000 square-foot tenants closer to when the building is being delivered and where we think the market will have strengthened.

So that's sort of the profile of those institutions. But for the most part, the financial companies that we're talking to have growth associated with them and the legal firms unless they are the beneficiary of a practice group coming from someplace else are clearly in a status quo or probably a reduction because they're becoming much more efficient in the way they use space.

ROBERT SELSAM, SVP AND REGIONAL MANAGER, NEW YORK OFFICE, BOSTON PROPERTIES: It's Robert Selsam. Can I add just one thing to that?

DOUG LINDE: Sure.

ROBERT SELSAM: All of these law firms that we've spoken to about 250 W. 55th St. have strong interest in expansion space. So it's not that they've closed the door to that, they actually anticipate future growth.

MICHAEL BILERMAN: Into the space they are growing into?

ROBERT SELSAM: Yes.

MICHAEL BILERMAN: Just Doug or Bob, can you clarify on 601 Lexington, you talked about that lease filling up 25% relative to the lease at (inaudible). How much are the improvements affecting that and how big of a difference do you think a lease signed at the base of 601 relative to the top of 601 have been different?

DOUG LINDE: The improvements are worthless, we are ripping them out. The improvements were a sort of a -- I don't want to say a new installation but a reuse of an older installation that this tenant has no interest in. So they are starting from scratch. And I think the rents overall in our buildings on the Upper East Side particularly on 53rd St. have all seen a similar increase both at from at the bases as well as the tops.

OPERATOR: Suzanne Kim, Credit Suisse.

SUZANNE KIM, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I'm trying to get some information about the cap interest guidance. So embedded in your guidance, are you looking at the impact of capitalized interest on projects you described during the call? And secondly, if W. 55th does come on line at the beginning of fourth quarter, what sort of quarterly run rate do you think that is going to be?

MIKE LABELLE: With respect to capitalized interest, we have got capitalized interest on our existing pipeline. We have got 500 North Capital that we started and we have got some of the projects -- primarily the residential building that Doug spoke of in Reston, we've got some of that in our projections.

Some of the other developments that Doug spoke of but not starting until later in the year like the Cambridge building where he said that we were working on a letter of intent would not start until later in the year. The building in Maryland that he spoke of is pretty small so that would have an impact but it's a small impact.

On 250 W. 55th St., I mentioned that it's $480 million of investment today at a 5.5% weighted average interest rate for the Company. We would not -- if we're lucky enough to get started, we would really not start spending a lot of additional money until much later in the year.

So it really depends upon when we actually start capitalization for that project, and we have not determined when that will be. If we're lucky enough to sign a lease in the near term, it could be turned on sooner than we would actually start spending money i.e. if we sign a lease in the third quarter, we could start it in the third quarter even though we're not starting to spend real dollars until the end of the fourth quarter. Does that help?

SUZANNE KIM: Yes, that's helpful. And then secondly just to expand upon the comments made about the development pipeline, are you looking more at projects that are sort of mixed use or are you sort of focused in on office projects now given that the yield that you've gotten on these sort of mixed use projects have been much more attractive.

DOUG LINDE: I would say that we are cognizant of the fact that there's certainly been a shift to -- from a zoning perspective in urban areas with there being mult-uses associated with projects and that we are very comfortable doing residential, retail and office development at a similar time. So I don't think there's been a -- we've tried to shift our focus, but that's sort of where the focus has been because that's where the zoning and land-use desires have been for most jurisdictions.

SUZANNE KIM: Okay, that's helpful, thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Jordan Sadler, KeyBanc Capital Markets.

JORDAN SADLER, ANALYST, KEYBANC CAPITAL MARKETS: Just quickly, Mike, just curious what you were assuming in terms of the average balance relative to the $1.5 billion of cash that you mentioned in terms of liquidity for the rest of the year and what's sort of the average balance maybe (multiple speakers) and the dilution you sort of put in the press release and talked about on the call.

MIKE LABELLE: We're assuming that -- the balance currently is $750 million as I said. We are assuming the Carnegie Center happens at the end of June. We are assuming that the increase from the Lexington Avenue financing happens at the end of June.

So that would climb our rate up to $1.5 billion. It would not change dramatically. There's some development spend. The larger projects are finishing up so I think the development spend on those projects is $100 million or so left that would be spent in the next six to 12 months. And the newer projects on the development side will not ramp up until later in the year.

So barring any acquisition activity which could occur which would have a material impact on that number or our decision to try to repay debt early which right now is not in our projections and it's something that we look at. In 2012 we have $660 million coming due in February, so that is something that we always look at.

But at this time, we have determined that that's not the best use of our capital, that we would like to conserve this liquidity for the potential to do acquisitions or other developments. So I guess in a roundabout way, we would expect it to be pretty stable for the second half of the year.

JORDAN SADLER: That's a perfect. And that brings me to the second question which is we talked a lot about dispositions and development, but we've talked very little about acquisitions.

Can we talk a little bit about the pipeline or are there still opportunities to buy the assets that you guys might be targeting? And is this sort of type of asset you're targeting sort of changing at all?

DOUG LINDE: The type of asset that we're looking at, I think Mort was crystal clear on what our predilection would be, so it's Class A buildings in Class A locations. Obviously you have -- you can't buy things that aren't for sale.

There are some larger transactions that are -- everybody in the real estate community is sort of aware of that may or may not occur in 2011 in markets we are in. There are some large portfolios of assets that are owned by some private individuals that they may have an interest in doing something and they may not in 2011 that we're looking at.

And then there is the one-off broker sales. I'm sure we will see additional volume in New York City and I'm sure we'll see additional volume in Washington DC. Probably not much in the way of Boston or in San Francisco on the sort of single asset step-up size.

And then as Mort said, there are other places where we are considering to make investments and if something happens in one of those places and it's something we're interested in, we will also look there. But there's no definitive pipeline of assets I can tell you. We have three deals we're working on and we think they're going to close in the next six months.

JORDAN SADLER: Is that fair to say you're a little bit less sanguine about sort of the acquisition opportunity?

DOUG LINDE: I think we are realistic about the acquisition opportunity which is as I sort of said in my prepared comments, the dam broke, there is money chasing assets like we were back in 2005-2006 with lower yield expectations for what they think they can find acceptable in terms of overall returns. And it's making the competitive deals associated with single asset purchases very competitive from a pricing perspective.

And if we can deploy capital into our developments or we can be more patient and find other places to put our money, we will do that. We're not simply going to grow just for the sake of growing. On the other hand, I guess I want to make this point because I think it's important, we don't care exclusively what the yield on an asset is going in.

What we care about is what the long-term value potential is both in the cash flow growth as well as the appreciation of that asset over time. So we're not scared of what a low return and what it means on a short-term basis if it's the right asset at the right place.

OPERATOR: Jay Habermann, Goldman Sachs.

JAY HABERMANN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just following on Jordan's question there, as you potentially see more assets come to market, do you see it as a function of pricing increasing or do you think it's more of the opportunity where there's some debt issues, there's some deferred CapEx? Perhaps that's an opportunity to enhance value as well.

DOUG LINDE: Jay, I think that the -- and I have been saying this for more than a year, I think the reason assets are selling has -- in the core markets has is less due with near-term debt maturities than overall valuation increases. And I think for the most part, the debt issues have taken care of themselves by having values appreciate to the point where the debt is no longer out of the money and controlling the equity where you actually have equity above the debt.

And I think that most institutions are prepared to make loans today on large assets. The CMBS market has come back and you can do a large loan in the CMBS market.

So I think this is sort of -- the ability to fund the refinancing of a maturity is much less of an issue than people thought it would be in the markets we're in; in San Francisco, Washington DC, Boston and New York. And so I think what we are seeing is more simply we think the values have gone up, we think we can either find a quote unquote recapitalization of the asset or a sale of an asset that makes sense for our business and we're going to market with that asset. That is what is driving things.

JAY HABERMANN: Okay and just second question on San Francisco, I know it shrunk as a percentage of the total, about 10% of NOI. Can you give us some sense of maybe what opportunities you might look for whether it's broader Silicon Valley or obviously outside of downtown San Francisco?

DOUG LINDE: We continue to look at anything and everything that might be for sale in San Francisco. The high-quality stuff is very sticky, it's very concentrated.

There were a lot of sales at very locked-in numbers by institutions that have a very long-term perspective. So the best stuff in all likelihood is not going to be trading anytime soon.

And our perspective on suburban stuff has been that there are times to get into the market and there are times not to be in the market. We think that the market from a rental rate perspective has clearly recovered.

There are places where we're probably more interested in making incremental investments. They're not going to be huge dollars if they're on a single asset basis. And as I said before, there's some larger portfolios that something may happen with overall over the next year or so that we will I'm sure look at.

JAY HABERMANN: Okay, and just final question on the W. 55th. Based on activity and sort of interest level to date, can you give us some sense of where you think even preview preleasing could be if you commence at the end of the year? Is this potentially somewhere somewhere you could get between say 40 and 50% or is that too high?

DOUG LINDE: It depends on the tenant. We may have a tenant for as little as 20%, we may have a tenant for as much as 50%. It will depend on who steps up and who we're most comfortable with and what the timing of the dialogue is.

OPERATOR: Rob Stevenson, Macquarie.

ROB STEVENSON, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Doug, you talked earlier on the call about the trend in terms of TIs and free rents across New York. Can you talk about where you have that in Boston, DC and San Francisco these days?

DOUG LINDE: Sure, I would say that the concession packages in ascending order are San Francisco, Boston, Washington DC. So you're actually getting a higher concession package in Washington DC than you are in Boston or in San Francisco.

You're getting a modest amount of free rent in each of those markets depending upon the tenant exploration that's sort of behind the transaction. But from a rental rate perspective, it's similar as well.

They're lower in San Francisco, they're higher in Boston and they're much higher in Washington DC. The face rents have been able to sort of maintain much closer to where they were pre-2008 and in fact in some cases have grown.

ROB STEVENSON: Okay, and then what are you guys seeing in terms of demand for the retail space in your portfolio and how has that sort of trended over the last couple of quarters?

DOUG LINDE: Our retail space is sort of in three different pockets. Pocket number one is the Prudential Center and there's an insatiable demand for retail space there. We have no availabilities.

And in some cases we're getting $70 triple net and in some cases we're getting close to $100 triple net for different spaces in the various places in the [arcade]. Then our second sort of locational is the stuff that's in our first floor of our buildings in our CBDs and I'd sort of refer to that as the stuff in Reston Town Center, the stuff in Washington DC and the stuff in New York City and I would say for the most part, we are seeing good activity.

The Washington CBD is probably the weakest of those markets because it's mostly restaurants and restaurants come and they go. And then the third pocket of retail is at Embarcadero Center and we have been pretty static in Embarcadero Center in terms of what we are seeing in demand.

It is not a 24-hour mixed use center. It is an eight o'clock in the morning until six o'clock at night specialty retail and convenience retail for the users in the financial district. There continues to be consistent demand for that space but it is not vibrant.

OPERATOR: David Harris, Gleacher.

DAVID HARRIS, ANALYST, GLEACHER & COMPANY: Your development program represents about 10% of the equity base. Is there an upper limit to where you might feel you're starting to get into the uncomfortable risk zone?

DOUG LINDE: Given the size of our balance sheet and the types of development that we are doing, I think if there was, we're so far away from it that it's not something that we even think about.

DAVID HARRIS: If we think back over previous cycles and I think as a company, you back two or three cycles, where would it have been maxed out in say the mid 2000s or previous cycles?

DOUG LINDE: Prior to 2000, we were almost 20% and that was when we had a balance sheet that was probably 25% the size we are today.

DAVID HARRIS: So what I'm hearing in your answer there for us if we were to double the size of the program, that wouldn't put you into -- you wouldn't feel that was getting into risky territory?

DOUG LINDE: No, and if we could double the size of the program, I would say that it would be a very strong indication that the economy had recovered in a very significant way. Because what we are seeing is that -- the development that we are seeing today is very specific to certain submarkets where there is clearly not a replacement cost rent opportunity for development in the current marketplace. But in certain cases, you can do a build to suit or in certain cases like 250 W. 55th St. because of our basis and where we are, we are better off developing than sort of hoping the market continues to grow at a rate of return over each year and where we are where we are.

DAVID HARRIS: Just on that point of the overall economy, has Mort already jumped?

MORT ZUCKERMAN: No, I'm here.

DAVID HARRIS: Mort, I made a note on the last call that you referenced I think GDP growth, your expectations for GDP growth of north of 2% and that would've been back in January. Are you any more optimistic or less optimistic today?

MORT ZUCKERMAN: If I may say, on the first quarter, 1.8% growth in GDP, I think it will get a little bit stronger than that. I still think it's going to be an anemic recovery and I certainly don't see it getting above 3%.

As I say, the real question is how much confidence has been eroded, and not just at the level of the consumer and the household, but also in business at this stage of the game. I think we will not see much in the way of improvement in employment.

We will see a lot of headwinds, higher interest rates, which will affect mortgages that have variable rates. It will affect the termination of special interest subsidy programs for homeowners.

The increased gasoline costs, increased food costs, you can go on and on, but the end of the whatchamacallit -- the stimulus program by the middle of this year, there are a lot of headwinds representing at least $400 billion of headwinds in the economy that is not what we want to have now but it's what we're going to have to live and that seems to me has got to have an effect on the economy.

So I don't see the economy as going to grow above 3% and I frankly think it will probably be somewhat below 3% unless American business really gets a turnaround and really starts spending a lot of the money and the cash that they have built up. But again, I think they're going to be very cautious about how fast and how far they go with their own spending because there just isn't that level of confidence either in the administration at this point or in the economy.

DAVID HARRIS: Well I'm not asking you to throw out a GDP forecast for 12, but I'm just wondering how you kind of think about a very subdued economy and how much financial services and tech and government which is essentially the basis of the driver of demand in your key markets, how much can that continue to be a source of very (inaudible) optimism for ground development if the rest of the economy is still in this very sluggish slow growth phase for an extended period of time?

MORT ZUCKERMAN: We have in fact seen that there are differentials in the rate of which different parts of the economy grow. The financial services industry -- and I suspect they're going to continue to be very active and do very well.

I just see that in part because of the various government programs, various -- where the capital markets are, the confidence that they have rebuilt in terms of their own activities, where they see a lot of opportunities for the -- shall we say the investment of large pools of capital. And I think that's probably a valid judgment.

They have narrowed the -- the private equity funds have been enormously active recently as you have seen. I suspect that's going to continue.

The banks are more open to lending to the better credit, so I think there is that. So I think the financial services industry is going to be in good shape, but the industries that basically are nourished by them will also be in good shape.

Do I think manufacturing will be in good shape or the retailers, I think they are going to have a very tough time. But I think they've taken a lot of the big cuts particularly in terms of employment to date.

I just don't see that they're going to be hiring very much and the problem is we have roughly 150,000 to 200,000 people who enter the labor market every month to real unemployment rates. As I say, it's very high and I don't see that that is going to change very much. So the attitude of consumer seems to me it's still going to be very cautious.

So I don't know how else to describe it. I think we're going to do well, relatively well. We have very little vacancy and I think in the markets that we are in, those are the better markets.

It doesn't mean that if this thing -- if the consumer tanks that we're really going to be able to do very much. I don't see given the politics of the country there's going to be another big fiscal stimulus program, no matter what.

Because there is a genuine feeling and nobody knows if this is absolutely certain. But when you get national debt at the percentage of GDP that gets above 90%, which is that's where we really are today, it really begins to have a downward pressure on the economy.

So I don't think you're going to get anything out of the Congress. We're just going to have to see how it goes and see how quickly there is a rebuilding of asset values particularly on the consumer side that really gives people the confidence to go ahead and spend. I think it's just going to take a much longer time than people have been thinking for a major recovery in the economy.

DAVID HARRIS: One point of detail and maybe I missed this, forgive me, Mike, on the guidance. Did you throw out an average occupancy for the year?

MIKE LABELLE: I didn't. It's really relatively unchanged to where it was before.

I think some of the absorption we had in the first quarter simply came sooner. So maybe the average is up a little bit, but somewhere in the 92, 92.5, something like that, n that range.

OPERATOR: Ross Nussbaum, UBS.

ROSS NUSSBAUM, ANALYST, UBS: One or two quick questions here. Number one, is there any plans to dispose of the Cambridge Marriott?

DOUG LINDE: The answer is no and it's sort of not an obvious answer. It's not because we want to be in the hotel business but because Cambridge Center is a pretty important location for us from a real estate perspective and the Cambridge Marriott physically sits in the middle of our portfolio there.

And there is a plaza in front of it and there's retail associated with it. And we think that until we are complete with our renovation and redevelopment of Cambridge Center which is going to be a multiyear program, owning and controlling the Cambridge Marriott is pretty critical to the real estate asset valuation that we have in our portfolio of buildings there.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: Number two, now that it looks like you are moving forward on 250 W. 55th, what about your other development site in the city? Does that look like it becomes on the table for 2012?

DOUG LINDE: No, it is currently a site that is probably a potential residential site. It doesn't have a floor plan at the moment that would be conducive to office tenants. Related and Boston Properties are still 50-50 partners in that development. I think that it will be longer than 2012 before something gets going there.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: And then finally, Mike, on the ATM program, would it be fair to assume that that would be your preferred equity mechanism of choice for match funding developments going forward such that you wouldn't be doing lumpier deals unless you had lumpier acquisitions?

MIKE LABELLE: I think we want to have access to all of the markets. I think that it's clearly an attractive way to raise a moderate amount of equity over a period of time.

So to the extent that we had something much more significant in size that the Company was undertaking, some major acquisition of some form, it might be more likely that we would do something that would be marketed and raise equity more quickly. With regard to our development program, I don't know if we would think about that with regard to our development program because I think that we -- our leverage position today we're very comfortable with.

We feel like we have added the dry powder that we need but from a balance sheet capacity and from a liquidity perspective so that we can execute on the development program that we have as well as look at acquisitions with our current balance sheet included.

OPERATOR: Steve Benyik, Jeffries.

STEVE BENYIK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: I guess regarding lease expirations, what do you guys expect for the balance of 2011? And earlier you mentioned the New York City leasing spreads, how they were impacted by the fact that they were in some of the lower rent buildings I guess regarding the 600,000 square feet or so you guys had rolling through 2012 in Manhattan, what can we expect for leasing spreads on that bucket?

DOUG LINDE: It's such a hard question to answer because it depends so much on each specific piece of space and what the tenant is paying when that lease expires. As I said, our marked to market for the portfolio is positive $0.67. We've got 1.9 million square feet of space rolling out between now and the end of the year.

There is very little if any space rolling over in Midtown Manhattan. The space that is available in Midtown Manhattan is almost exclusively at the base of 2 Grand Central and then there are two or three floors at the top of 2 Grand Central.

So there will be a roll down on the space in that building because of where the former tenants were if we lease it up within 12 months. But that shouldn't be an indication of what's going on in the Midtown Manhattan market.

It's simply a question of where the space was actually leased and is now vacant. But the way we do our statistics, if it's less than a year, we sort of show you that the marked to market or the markup when we do our second generation (inaudible)

STEVE BENYIK: And what are you guys seeing on early renewals in terms of the higher-quality space or just lower-quality space. Is there any real difference there?

DOUG LINDE: I would say that we are -- in certain markets the tenants get way out in front of -- on early renewals, Washington DC being the most obvious of those markets. In the other markets, there tends to be less of a discussion until you sort of get within 12 plus or minus months except for the really, really large tenants. And we are at the moment not having any really significant conversations in New York City, in San Francisco, in Boston about renewals.

There are a couple of tenants in Washington DC with 2013-2014 lease expirations [8th and Gump] being the one I talked about this quarter where those kinds of conversations occur. But I wouldn't say there's any sort of change in terms of what that marked to market might be on a renewal versus just a simple trade of -- trading our tenant on a space.

STEVE BENYIK: And then just finally, I'm sorry if I missed it, on the 2012 debt maturities, you guys have over $600 million related to the exchangeable notes redemption dates of February 2012 and then also probably over $400 million of secured debt related to 510 Madison and Bay Colony. I guess on the secured side, is there any concern you guys may need to pay some of that down if leasing doesn't come to fruition quickly enough in 2012?

MIKE LABELLE: Well the 510 Madison debt if you recall was put on as a way to conserve the mortgage tax that was previously associated with that asset with the prior owner. So that's actually a cash secured facility and one of the reasons why we have restricted cash on our balance sheet. So our expectation is when we finalize the -- and closed the 601 Lexington Avenue loan that we will transfer the tax and extinguish that debt in 2011.

With regard to Bay Colony, it's about $140 million loan, if we sit tomorrow where we are today, it's not a huge debt. We'll probably pay it off with cash I would expect.

If we were going to do a secured financing to replace it, we might use another asset depending on what the occupancy is. I think that that asset -- it's 65% occupied today and there's some rollover still to come. So I wouldn't expect it to be stabilized by the time the debt matures, so it would be more likely than not that we would pay that one off at that time.

And I mentioned the convertibles, we're looking at that on a consistent basis to see if it makes any sense for us to pay it off early and it hasn't recently. So our expectation at this point is that we would deal with that at its maturity and either refinance it with a new debt issuance either secured or unsecured or potentially just pay it off depending on what our view of our liquidity was at that time.

STEVE BENYIK: Okay and then just finally, did you guys mention where the spread is going on the line of credit, where you guys expect that to go when it gets redone?

MIKE LABELLE: We haven't mentioned it specifically. It's not done yet. But in general, both the facility fees and the credit spreads are higher than they are today.

Those spreads are coming down, so if you look at kind of what people were doing 12 months ago, six month ago, three months ago today, there's a consistent compression in both of those things. And you know, we simply had to decide when the right time for us to enter the market was. We decided it was now. So it will be going up but until we get it done, I really don't want to say what the numbers are.

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to turn the call back to management for any additional remarks.

DOUG LINDE: Thank you very much for joining us. We will talk to you in June when we are at the (inaudible) conference and we look forward to whatever update we can possibly do in the next 30 days. But we will give you what we know. Thanks, bye.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's Boston Properties conference call. Thank you again for attending and have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc | usdia : Defense Intelligence Agency
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c184 : Joint Ventures | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c151 : Earnings | gland : Land Use | e512 : Physical Trade | gsocc : Soccer | c11 : Plans/Strategy | e1101 : Economic Growth | ntra : Transcript | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gspo : Sports/Recreation | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | boston : Boston | nyc : New York City | sfra : San Francisco | usdc : Washington DC | namz : North America | usca : California | use : Northeast U.S. | usma : Massachusetts | usny : New York | usw : Western U.S.
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110517e7530060u
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Leapfrog Enterprises Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,979 words
   PD
2 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good afternoon. My name is Phillip and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the LeapFrog Q1 2011 conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Ms. Sansot, you may begin your conference.

   TD
KAREN SANSOT, SENIOR DIRECTOR-IR, LEAPFROG ENTERPRISES, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to the LeapFrog Enterprises conference call to review our results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011. I'm Karen Sansot, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Today on the call, we have John Barbour, our new Chief Executive Officer, and Mark Etnyre, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, we wish to remind you that our statements today will include forward-looking statements about management's expectations including expectations regarding anticipated 2011 financial results, such as expected sales and earnings per share. In addition, we expect the questions posed in the Q&A portion of this call to prompt answers that contain additional forward-looking statements not included in our prepared remarks. You should be aware that actual results might differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Some important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are described in our most recent form 10-K filed with the SEC. LeapFrog makes these statements as of today and disclaims any duty to update them. On this call, we will also discuss point of sale data. Please refer to the press release we issued today, which is posted on our website at www.leapfroginvestor.com for explanations of point of sale data. I would now like to turn the call over to John Barbour.

JOHN BARBOUR, CEO, LEAPFROG ENTERPRISES, INC.: Thank you, Karen, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to our call. As you can hear, I speak with a broad Scottish accent, and at times I talk pretty quickly. So if I say anything you don't understand, don't hesitate to ask any questions when we get to the end of the call.

This is my first earnings call at LeapFrog since I joined the Company. Over the last eight weeks, I've met with LeapFrog employees all around the world, talked with many of our strategic partners, and reviewed each of our key products and plans for the year. I can tell you that I'm very excited to be here at LeapFrog, and believe that we have tremendous long-term earnings potential here. I'll take a couple of minutes to talk about our first quarter performance, and then I'll spend the rest of my time sharing why I decided to join LeapFrog and what I've learned in my first eight weeks.

While the first quarter is seasonably small, we are beginning the year with solid results. Our point of sale performance was strong, up 8% in the US and higher internationally. As many of you are aware, we ended 2010 with too much inventory in the domestic retail channel, which we expected would impact our net sales in the first and second quarters.

The POS growth is helping bring the retail inventory to desired levels and setting the stage for net sales growth in the second half of this year. While consolidated net sales declined 6% in the first quarter due to the retail carryover, net sales growth was very strong in our international segment, up 37% year-over-year.

This is exciting since international expansion is a key part of our long-term strategic plans. Importantly, we also improved gross margins and bottom line results in the first quarter as a result of tight cost management.

Now, let me switch gears to why I joined LeapFrog. I've been a big fan of the LeapFrog brand for many years. LeapFrog creates life-changing learning solutions for children that can help every child achieve their full potential. LeapFrog's heritage and products are rich in education, technology, and storytelling.

The LeapFrog brand resonates with parents because we make the best educational toys. Children love to play with our products and parents love that children are learning and developing life skills through play.

The quality of our products was demonstrated this past February when LeapFrog won two Toy of the Year awards at the TIA event at the New York Toy Fair. Leapster Explorer was chosen as Educational Toy of the Year and My Own Leaptop won Infant-Toddler Toy of the Year.

LeapFrog is a truly innovative company, from the original LeapPad that totally revolutionized the teaching of children to read to today's top learning solutions, Tag, Leapster Explorer, to this year's launches of our new multi-functional learning tablet, the LeapPad, and our new iPhone/iPad LeapFrog digital content.

Today's portfolio is strong and diverse, and most of our products connect to LeapFrog's unique Learning Path ecosystem, which provides millions of parents personalized feedback about their children's learning progress and offers recommendations to enhance their child's learning experiences. The Learning Path is expanding to connect more than just parents, but also extended family and friends. And it's evolving so parents may share their children's learning moments on social media sites such as Facebook.

I believe that LeapFrog has tremendous long-term earnings potential through continued growth of our product portfolio, improved retail execution, international expansion, and further cost efficiencies. Based on what I've seen over the last eight weeks, there are at least three game-changing opportunities for the next few years that stand out.

Our new LeapPad multi-functional learning tablet, leveraging our great learning content across our growing LeapFrog platforms and rapidly expanding external digital platforms and our international expansion.

The new LeapPad, which launches in the third quarter, has the potential to be a massive hit and a significant new learning platform for the Company. Early retailer and consumer feedback have been very positive.

Our content, which combines best in class educational curricula with fun and engaging storytelling, has tremendous potential not only across our own LeapFrog's learning systems but across other digital platforms including a massive and fast-growing Smartphone and tablet markets. Then you look at international expansion, our international business achieved strong growth in both sales and point of sale in Q1, and we see lots of potential to build on this growth. In addition, to these exciting multi-year opportunities, I believe that Learning Path is a very important, yet under-utilized, asset.

Today, we're connecting to millions of parents through the Learning Path and provide them with personalized feedback on their children's learning experience with our products. However, we can do a better job communicating with parents and providing a richer, more helpful experience. We're continuing to improve the Learning Path experience, extend its capabilities to social media, and expand the learning knowledge that it shares with parents.

Finally, I've now met most of the people in the LeapFrog team around the world, and I have to tell you that I've been very impressed with their passion and their talent for creating effective learning solutions for children. With this passion, our excellent brand, strong product portfolio, and game-changing opportunities, I believe that LeapFrog can become a great company and create significant volume for our business partners and our shareholders.

Now, I would like to turn over the call to Mark who will review the financial highlights for the first quarter.

MARK ETNYRE, CFO, LEAPFROG ENTERPRISES, INC.: Thank you, J.B., and good afternoon, everyone.

First, I would like to provide an overview of our first quarter results. Our Q1 results were generally consistent with our plan. Demand for our products remained solid with retail POS up 8% in the US and up even higher in several international markets. The POS growth partially reduced the US retail inventory carryover from 2010, and if this trend continues, we expect retail inventory levels to return to normal seasonal levels by end of the second quarter.

Net sales were down in the first quarter as expected given the 2010 retail inventory carryover; however, our gross margin percentage and seasonal operating loss both improved year-over-year. While the first quarter is seasonally insignificant, we are making progress towards the financial objectives we established at the beginning of the year, which are to drive earnings growth through improved operational efficiencies.

Now, let me provide a bit more detail about our first quarter 2011 financial performance as summarized in the financial tables accompanying the press release. Worldwide net sales are $40 million, down 6% compared to a year ago. US segment net sales are $26 million, down 19% compared to a year ago. We expected net sales to decline in the US given the year-end retail inventory carryover. However, it is important to keep in mind that the retail sales velocity as measured by POS results was up 8% in the United States.

Net sales in our international segment were $13 million, up 37% compared to a year ago, driven by strong sales from our mature English-speaking markets. While it's early in the year and we expect international growth rates will moderate, we are encouraged by the first quarter performance as increasing our international share is one of our strategic growth initiatives.

Worldwide net sales by business line for the quarter were as follows. Interactive reading sales declined 16%. The decline was expected and largely driven by the 2010 retail inventory carryover in the United States.

Mobile Learning sales declined 5%. Similar to interactive reading, our mobile learning business was impacted by the retail inventory carryover in the United States.

Within the mobile learning business, Leapster Explorer continues to perform well on the heels of being awarded the Educational Toy of the Year at the New York Toy Fair. And our learning toy sales increased 1% as continued strength in Scout and My Own Leaptop more than offset declines in legacy products.

Gross margin for the quarter was 29.6%, an improvement of 30 basis points year-over-year driven primarily by mix. Operating expenses for the quarter were $34 million, down 5%. We continue to maintain tight cost control and improve the efficiency of our business.

SG&A expenses declined 3%, and R&D expenses declined 5% primarily as a result of lower headcount. Advertising expense declined 30% primarily due to the timing of planned spend. While we expect some advertising efficiency due to our Learning Path ecosystem, we expect our full year advertising as a ratio of net sales to be closer to historical trends than it was in the first quarter.

Loss from operations was $22 million, an improvement of over $1 million or 6% compared to a year ago, primarily as a result of our lower cost base. And as a result, net loss per share is $0.34, an improvement of $0.03 compared to a year ago.

Now let's turn to the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents were $77 million at the end of the quarter, compared to $86 million a year ago. The declining cash balance is primarily due to the inventory build-up.

We ended the quarter with an inventory balance at $55 million, compared to a $36 million balance a year ago, which was a historical low for our first quarter. The inventory increase is primarily due to building products earlier in the year, procuring strategic comments for existing and future marquee platforms, and the impact of the 2010 retail inventory carryover. Our on-hand inventory consists of high quality, good line products.

Our accounts receivable balance at the end of the quarter was $38 million, fairly consistent with the $40 million balance a year ago, and our accounts receivable portfolio remains healthy.

Now, I would like to finish my remarks with a view on our second quarter and full year outlook. In the second quarter of 2011, we expect net sales to be down approximately 15% to 20% compared to the second quarter of 2010, and net loss per share to be in the range of $0.23 to $0.26.

We expect net sales to decline in the second quarter given the impact of the 2010 retail inventory carry-forward. As previously mentioned, we expect retail inventory levels to normalize by the end of the second quarter, which would bring second-half net sales growth more in line with POS growth rates.

Additionally, the time in a product launch will also impact our second quarter net sales. Specifically, the second quarter of 2010 benefited from selling the Leapster Explorer platform in advance of the July 2010 launch. Our new mobile learning platform launching in 2011, the new LeapPad, will launch later in the third quarter than Leapster Explorer launched last year. Therefore, we are not anticipating any revenue related to the LeapPad until the third quarter.

So we're right about where we expected to be coming out of the first quarter. POS is positive, international sales growth is solid, and our new product launches are looking good. We're also delivering on our financial objectives of generating higher quality sales and improving operational efficiencies. Therefore, we're maintaining our full year 2011 guidance, which includes net sales finishing flat to slightly down compared to 2010 and earnings per share of $0.15 to $0.20, over two times the EPS we achieved in 2010.

That concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open the call for questions. I'm open to answering any questions that you may have and J.B. will answer anything that relates to his first weeks. Operator, who would like to ask the first question?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your first question is from the line of Sean McGowan.

MARK ETNYRE: Hello, Sean.

SEAN MCGOWAN, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: I don't think it's the accent.

OPERATOR: Sean, your line is open now.

SEAN MCGOWAN: Can you hear me?

MARK ETNYRE: We can hear you.

SEAN MCGOWAN: Regarding retail inventories, would you say that things are cleaning up kind of across the board or are there still some retailers that are, you know, lagging others in terms of working through the excess inventories.

MARK ETNYRE: Sean, I think when we look at it -- we're looking at the aggregate, of course, across our retailers on a pretty consistent basis. We generally see workdown pretty consistent across our retailers, so it would be across the board at this point.

SEAN MCGOWAN: Now regarding gross margins, what kind of trends are you seeing in terms of your factories that would lead you to conclude this gross margin improvement might be able to sustain?

MARK ETNYRE: Well, you know, there's no question that input costs are challenging across the industry. I mean as we look at resin, labor costs, freight costs, there's pressures across the board. As many of you know, we generally lock our prices in early in the year, but when pricing is this volatile and the component costs are this volatile, generally, we come back to the table. So while we're encouraged, it still is early in the year, Sean, and we do expect that we'll see pressures in the back half.

SEAN MCGOWAN: Does that mean you're expecting gross margins not to improve in the second half?

MARK ETNYRE: Well, we haven't given guidance on gross margin specifically. Sequentially, we expect margins to expand as we go out throughout the course of the year, so we'd expect that trend to continue in 2011.

SEAN MCGOWAN: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Lee Giordano.

LEE GIORDANO, ANALYST, IMPERIAL CAPITAL, LLC: Thanks, good afternoon, everybody. Can you talk a little bit more about the international business? You're seeing some good stuff there. Is it across the board across the categories?

MARK ETNYRE: Sure, Lee, and this is Mark. Our international business had a really good quarter, up 37%. The majority of that growth came from our English speaking markets as I mentioned in our prepared remarks, the mature markets. So the mature market, that's the U.K., and that's also our distributor business coming in, Australia, New Zealand. Largely across all of our product sets, if you look at it from that perspective, the growth was fairly evenly spread with more growth coming in those markets and some of our strategic business units more like the mobile learning and reading business.

LEE GIORDANO: Okay, great. And can you touch on the new iPhone application that you launched this past quarter? What have you learned about in a opportunity going forward?

JOHN BARBOUR: Well, it's our first move into the marketplace. This is John here. What we're seeing from a rating standpoint, we've sold thousands already. It's getting a good response in the time we've been out there. There are some bugs in the app which cause it to react not so effectively with older iPhones out there with limited memory, but we're fixing that. But if you look at the ratings we're getting, the kind of high fours for the people who can play the app and enjoy the app, and for the people who are having problems with it, we get pretty low ratings. I think it's been a good foot into the marketplace. It's part of our business that we see lots of opportunity going forward. We certainly wish that we didn't have the bugs that we had in, but we're learning from those bugs and we'll do better next time.

LEE GIORDANO: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Drew Crum.

JOHN BARBOUR: Hi Drew.

DREW CRUM, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS & CO., INC.: Good afternoon, everyone. Mark, there's a severance charge in the SG&A line. Is that something we should expect to continue through the year and, if not, should we have see any benefit in the out quarters?

MARK ETNYRE: Yeah, we had a CEO transition this quarter, which was a big driver of that severance charge. As we look at the business going forward, I think we've historically seen severance charges in the first quarter and maybe to some extent later in the fourth quarter, but we don't believe that the trend that you would see in the first quarter would be indicative of what you should expect for the rest of the year.

DREW CRUM: That's fair enough. And then just a follow-up on Sean's question earlier on the gross margin, can you give us any guidance for the second quarter? I think your comment was that you expected sequential improvement through the year. What about the second quarter year-on-year?

MARK ETNYRE: Yeah. So again, we haven't really talked about that specifically. What I would encourage you to do, Drew, is look at last year's Q2 and model a relatively modest uptick from that, consistent with what we saw in the first quarter.

DREW CRUM: Helpful. Can you address the performance of Tag during the period? I know that was an item that maybe under-performed your expectations in the fourth quarter and was a source of the inventory overhang going into the year. You mentioned interactive reading was down in the quarter. Can you talk about how that product performed specifically and things you're doing to improve the performance for the balance of year?

JOHN BARBOUR: Let me give a couple remarks to that. I think reading is a very important part of our business. If you look at the LeapPad which we launched at the beginning which really revolutionized teaching kids how to read, we will see reading as core part of our business going forward. And I think the Tag is actually an excellent product. And if you look at the ratings on the product that you get when it's out in the market place either on Amazon.com or on Walmart.com, overall it gets great ratings and people really love it. I think we've done a very weak job in communicating the value of what's offered in Tag. Both in terms of curricula value, but in terms also in play value of the product. So I think we have a marketing challenge in Tag. I don't think we have a product challenge in it, and we're going to be doing a lot better efforts in making sure that the consumer can see the real value in the product, and we believe that will have a bigger impact as we go forward into the second half and beyond. Do you want to add anything, Mark?

MARK ETNYRE: The only other piece I would add is that POS for Tag is relatively consistent with our overall POS growth in the US for the quarter.

DREW CRUM: Okay. And Mark, what does the inventory position look like for the international business? Obviously, a very strong performance in the first quarter, where do you standgoing into the second quarter with that business?

MARK ETNYRE: Sure. Part of the growth clearly came from international as that business grew 37% and we've talked about international being a growth pillar for the future. Some of that -- we'll continue to see some growth in inventory to support that sales growth.

DREW CRUM: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from the line of Gerrick Johnson.

GERRICK JOHNSON, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, good evening. John, I'm not sure if you're ready to talk about bigger picture/strategy things yet, but how do you feel about expanding into different categories, different parts of the store, perhaps different channels, or digital downloads, things like that?

JOHN BARBOUR: Wow, those are bigger topics.

GERRICK JOHNSON: Yeah.

JOHN BARBOUR: You know, right now, I think we have a lot of opportunity in our existing business. I think that the launch of the new LeapPad, you know, when you sit back and you look at that, I think that is a massive opportunity for our business going forward for the next two to three years. When you look at the demand out there for tablets and the way that kids love to emulate their parents, and the fact is this year we'll have over 100 pieces of content for it. For those of us who have got experience across this business over many years, we've seen it; it's really about the content, and the fact that we'll have many times more content and I think really high quality content in our tablet out there versus anything else in the marketplace. I think we have a lot of opportunity with the existing ecosystems. And I think also that we haven't done a particularly good job in communicating the curricula element of what we offer here. I find it fascinating that the great ratings we get for product and yet sometimes the poor job we do of communicating the value the product actually offers. So I see a lot of opportunities in our existing products as they are. I think there's also a very large opportunity taking that award-winning life-changing content and moving it on to other platforms going forward, such as the iPhone, iPad, but we know there are many other platforms out there that our content could really play on. And at some standpoint, I look at international. I look at English as a second language and see lots of opportunity for this company in those places, as well. So those are the kind of (inaudible) tent poles I'm looking at right now. It sounds apologetic, but I've only been here eight weeks and they've been a pretty busy eight weeks, but I'm sure my thoughts are going to gel and develop over the next eight weeks, so as I say, I do see lots of opportunity out there. I think if you look at what we do, which is breakthrough, incredibly effective teaching wrapped into powerful stories, that gives us a lot of opportunities to take that type of content into a wide variety of delivery systems, and that's where I see some really big opportunities going forward. Does that give you a little bit of a sense of what I'm looking at?

GERRICK JOHNSON: It does. Thank you. I'm sure we'll learn more as we go forward. Just one more specific question sort of on the new channels you guys got into last year like Barnes and Noble and expansion at Best Buy. How did those perform last year and what kind of plans do you guys have going forward for those sort of channels?

MARK ETNYRE: I'll take that, Gerrick. The sales last year performed to our expectations. When we look at the expansion, those were both critical to, you know, expanding our footprint. And as we think and look forward to the future, clearly both are in line and critical in 2011 in performing our expectations in the first quarter.

GERRICK JOHNSON: Okie doke. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Ed Woo.

EDWARD WOO, ANALYST, WEDBUSH SECURITIES, INC.: Yeah, hi. How much of the international growth was driven from point of sale versus just expansion of your business?

MARK ETNYRE: Hey, Ed, it's Mark. The point of sales growth was pretty consistent with our sell-through, so a lot of that was really driven by the strength at retail. Not to say there wasn't some modest pickup and distribution channels, but it was relatively modest. Most of that growth is coming from really good velocity at retail.

EDWARD WOO: And is it predominantly your existing markets of Europe and maybe Canada and Mexico?

MARK ETNYRE: That's right. Most of the sales are coming from where we have already existing presence.

JOHN BARBOUR: And to add to that, I've been in stores in France and UK in the last three weeks or so and in Asia, and I have to tell you, I was very impressed by the way that our brand was looking in our international stores. I think those teams have done a good job and we have a lot more potential in those marketplaces. But the brand certainly looked good in the stores there.

EDWARD WOO: I'll definitely look for increased sales in Scotland next quarter.

JOHN BARBOUR: Yeah, unfortunately, you know, like me, English is a second language.

EDWARD WOO: Great. So one last question I have is coming out of Toy Fair, have you noticed any changes in the competitive marketplace of your competitors?

JOHN BARBOUR: You know, I've been pretty focused since Toy Fair on our own business. You know, I had a view when I went to ToysRUs that ToysRUs for years was blaming Walmart, and to be frank, ToysRUs just has to be better at being ToysRUs, and I think (inaudible) and the team there have done a wonderful job of actually proving that. I look at the marketplace and I'm certainly very focused on our competitors, but our first challenge is to run our business better, and that's where I think there's lots of opportunities for us to do a better job. We should never be complacent with competition and we're watching them all the time, but there's no one in the marketplace that creates educational products that are as effectives a ours.

EDWARD WOO: Well, great. Thank you and good luck.

JOHN BARBOUR: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of John Taylor.

JOHN TAYLOR, ANALYST, ARCADIA INVESTMENT: Hi. I would like to ask a couple of questions, too, if I can. And welcome Mr. Barbour aboard. I guess the first one is could you talk a little bit about the license positioning for the books and software side of the business going into the summer with the great slate of stuff that's coming out of Hollywood and relative to last year?

MARK ETNYRE: Sure. Sure, J.T. The big blockbuster movie that probably had the most impact to LeapFrog's business is Cars 2, and we believe when we look at our portfolio and our product offerings, we'll have a Cars 2 title across every one of our strategic platforms, in addition to some downloadable content for our mobile learning experiences. So we're well covered I think from that perspective with the major launch this year. Cars has been one of those evergreen titles that resonates very, very well with our customer base. Clearly there's plenty of other movies coming out this year, but as far as our customer base, Cars 2 is right there in the middle of the sweet spot for us.

JOHN TAYLOR: Do you think there's much of a challenge replacing the Toy Story 3 revenue from last year, because that was a similar kind of position, right?

MARK ETNYRE: It was. I think what we found even though it's a Toy Story 3, there's a carryover effect with that product resonating with a new age growth. So it does fall after the year of launch, but that business in year two is not inconsequential either.

JOHN BARBOUR: J.T., I think, as well, we need to do a better job with content. I think if you look at LeapFrog, everybody tends to talk about the hardware systems rather than what actually does the job, which a big part of it is the content. As we look at content going forward, we need to -- I think we need to leverage the ecosystems that we have out there better to get more exclusive license content and also to expand our own IP, as well, as we move on to different platforms. So you're going to see a lot of work happening over the next 12 to 18 months, really looking at the content that we have there, really making sure that it sits compatibly within our curricula, developing more exquisite content and more of our own content, as well as we move forward. So there's a lot of work going into strategically looking at how we develop our content business. If surprises me for the amount of players that are out there and devices that are out there that how little of our content we actually have exclusively from the big license holders and that's an area we're going to be working very strongly with our license partners.

JOHN TAYLOR: Okay. Let me follow on that thought then if I can. As you look at the allocation of your development budget, your product development R&D line, are we going to see difference -- we're not going to see from the outside, but are you guys going to -- are we going to see much of a shift in terms of allocation by hardware development or tech development as opposed to software or distribution development or adaptation for some of the new platforms, the digital downloads, etc.?

MARK ETNYRE: You know, J.T., I think we're always going to have a fair amount of our spend on platforms, whether it's the next generation reading or, in the case of our mobile learning platform, what the next version looks like there. Right now, it's a key part of our business. That said, we also are going to be spending more of our efforts I think on the content side, not just our platforms, but as J.B. mentioned, our developing for the Apple platform, the Android platform, and others going forward. So there's going to be, I guess to sum up, we'll invest in the hardware but we're going to invest probably even more in the software business going forward with some reallocations.

JOHN TAYLOR: Okay, great. So the Android and Apple are both pretty crowded now, and one thing that everybody complain about is how you get your title to sort of rise up above the fray. I may be a little premature to ask about this but I'm going to try anyway. Can you talk a little bit about the marketing effort, how do you break that log jam and really make mom available or aware of what's available and pull the trigger?

JOHN BARBOUR: Yeah, I think some of my experience from my time at RealNetworks' GameHouse will certainly apply here, John, but I think it starts off first of all by developing great content and great curricula. And I think if you look at a rich heritage in doing that, we have a great brand and we're recognized for creating content that really does have a positive impact in kids' lives. Then what we've got to do is we've then got to pull out all of stops across our business and make sure that we do the job so that people can experience that content across multiple platforms, not on their own platforms, but moving onto other platforms as we go forward. We have elements such as Learning Path, which nobody that's on the Apple ecosystem has today. We have a bunch of assets that I think apply to those ecosystems that I think can leverage our business going forward. I think there may be some differences in the content because in there, the potential is that we're probably going to offer more snacks of content there versus full meals of content, and we're going to do some experimenting. But I think for people who thought that we were only going to develop content for our own platforms, that's not valid at all. We are going to look to expand our content across multiple platforms as we go forward because people want to see our content in multiple platforms and we should be there on the devices that people want to use.

JOHN TAYLOR: Okay. Great. And then last question is on gross margin. So you're not giving us specific guidance, but it's pretty clear there's some input cost inflation. So I wonder are you guys going to be in a position to protect your margins on the new platform coming out, are you going to have enough time in order to price it right so you can protect margin or is there some exposure there?

MARK ETNYRE: Yeah, it's one of those things where we're managing day-to-day, J.T. The market is in flux and certainly with some of the component costs that go into that with, you know, with storage and supply, it's something that we're managing closely. I would say there's much more upside pressure than downside pressure.

JOHN BARBOUR: I think it's also important to recognize that while transportation affects virtually all of our sales, there's no question that is an impact. The fact that a bunch of our sales come from content where there are limited resin in those products, I think we've got some sense of a hedge there, but I think we all know that things are changing pretty quickly in the world at the moment and we can only -- we're planning for the longer horizon, but we're also trying to create opportunities to protect the sales from sharp down fluctuations, as well.

JOHN TAYLOR: Okay. Great. Thank you.

JOHN BARBOUR: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question is follow up from Sean McGowan.

MARK ETNYRE: Hello again, Sean.

JOHN BARBOUR: Hi, Sean, long time no speak. Oh, no.

OPERATOR: Sean, your line is open.

JOHN BARBOUR: Hey, Sean.

OPERATOR: And that question was withdrawn. Your next question is from Irene Tarkov.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: This is (inaudible) in for Irene. Unidentified Participant: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the economics of the new iPod app, or iPhone app, revenue per unit margin, what do you think the cash impact is per download?

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: How is this sort of going to affect the bottom line?

MARK ETNYRE: Sure. I mean, specific to this one app, if you were to go out in the iTunes Store, you would see it offered for $3.99 per unit. The economics are pretty consistent I think with anybody who does an application on the iTunes Store where there's a cut that Apple takes off the top. J.B. mentioned that this is our first foray. We're learning through the process. We've sold thousands of units. The development cost for an iPhone app is much less than you would spend developing a cartridge and so, the economics aren't dramatically different from a gross margin, it's just lower investment and as volume increases, hopefully we'll see that in terms of incremental gross profit dollars. But it's still relatively early; the product's been out for just about a month at this point in time, so we're still watching it.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: And your next question is from Sean McGowan.

SEAN MCGOWAN: Yes, sorry about that, guys. I'm having issues with the mute button. Can you hear me now?

JOHN BARBOUR: We can hear you now.

SEAN MCGOWAN: I wanted to follow up -- I know you've already commented a lot about moving to other platforms, but it seems like I think a lot of people are -- have been zigging lately when they should have been zagging, and a lot of people moved away from mobile platforms and now they're running back, and I'm talking about generally in the game business. Are you seeing changes that would prompt you to kind of move faster than you might have thought even six months ago, you know, towards some of these other platforms?

JOHN BARBOUR: I can't comment on what people were thinking six months ago, but I can tell you that, you know, there's no question that -- just look at the number of tablets that have been sold at the moment and the number of Smartphones that are out there, and then walk through any airport and watch any family travelling and see how many kids are playing on those, you know, $600, $700 products. There is a really exciting marketplace open there for kids using those products that deliver proven educational experiences. And we're saying to ourselves, "Hey, there's two benefits here." There's the product that we sell to emulate that, but for the people who choose to also use it in the iPad, we've got to then be able to take that content, that curricula, that great learning experience and put it in the other platforms. So we look at the scale in the marketplace there and feel that, to be frank, that this was a marketplace that we're slow to game at and we need to turn it up a little bit and do a better job I think. So I think there's a growing marketplace out there for high quality educational products on those platforms, and since we're the leader in this space we're in right now, I think we should also be trying to be the leader in that space, as well, because it's very complimentary to our business.

SEAN MCGOWAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And there are no further questions that this time.

JOHN BARBOUR: Thank you very much.

KAREN SANSOT: Thanks everyone for joining us on our call today. Please feel free to contact Mark or me if you have any follow-up questions. Thanks, and goodbye.

OPERATOR: And that does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
lpfrg : LeapFrog Enterprises Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | imobsoft : Mobile Applications Software | itablcm : Tablet Computers | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302011 : Portable/Notebook Computers | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods
   NS
glit : Literacy | e1113 : Inventories | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | gedu : Education | gsoc : Social Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110516e752005k2
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 HTC Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,894 words
   PD
29 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome, everyone, to HTC's 2011 Q1 results conference call webcast in English. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent background noise. After the presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. Please follow the instructions given at that time if you would like to ask a question.

   TD
For your information, this conference call is being broadcast live over the Internet. Webcast replay will be available within an hour after the conference is finished. Please visit www.htc.com under the Investor Relations section.

I would like to introduce Mr. Joey Cheng, Director of the Investor Relations. Mr. Cheng, please begin.

JOEY CHENG, DIRECTOR OF IR, HTC CORPORATION: Bobby, thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome again for joining HTC 2011 first quarter earnings call. Before we start, I would like to introduce my colleagues who are with me today.

First, we are happy to have CFO Winston Yung to review the first quarter result and discuss the Company outlook for the second-quarter 2011. And also in the room are Maggie Tseng and Sanny Yang from the IR team.

The presentation we're about to go through has been sent out five hours ago and you may also download it from our website or participate through webcast. If you do not have the presentation, please let us know now. Your mike will be put on mute when we are presenting, and if you are cut off, please dial back in or call Sanny at 886 country code, 937-884-181 for assistance.

And the forward-looking statement in this release reflect the current belief of our Company, HTC, at the date of this release and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statement for event or circumstance that occurs subsequent to such date.

If you have no questions, we will start by asking CFO Winston Yung to give us an overview for the first quarter. Winston.

WINSTON YUNG, CFO, HTC CORPORATION: Thank you, Joey. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Please turn to page 3. During the past year, we continued to see strong growth in the smartphone market. Shipment grew 192% year on year to TWD9.7 million. First Q revenue was TWD104 billion, up 174% year on year.

Gross margin was in line with original guidance at 29.3%. Operating expense came down from 15.6% in the year-ago quarter to 13.4% due to enhanced operational efficiency and economy of scale. As a result, operating margin went up from 14.9% in first Q 2010 to 15.8%.

Please turn to page 4. Strong brand recognition and product innovation have translated into record high revenues and profits. We're happy to report that new products launched year to date, especially our 4G products, have been well received by the market.

Announcements of Wildfire S; the social networking ChaCha and Salsa; our first tablet, Flyer; our first 3D phone, Evo 3D; and the multimedia, Sensation show HTC's sustained leadership in technology and innovation, innovation that includes not only new architecture and technology, but also premium designs that appeals to different customer segments.

On the software side, we reinvented HTC Sense for superphones, phones with landscape displays and keyboards, and tablets with larger and higher resolution displays. We will also initiate our content delivering strategy with HTC Watch as the first step in the second quarter.

Our innovations have been recognized by numerous awards, which includes the Company being named Device Manufacturer of the Year at the Global Mobile Awards 2011.

I'll now handover to Joey who'd take you through the first quarter results in greater detail.

JOEY CHENG: Thank you, Winston. Please turn to page 6, Revenue. Revenue for first quarter hit new high with TWD104 billion. Sell through and inventory remained healthy going into second-quarter 2011.

In page 7, advance technology and innovation drive strong high-end demand and result in favorable product mix and ASP in USD went up 6% year over year and ASP in NT dollar was down driven by NT dollar appreciation in the first quarter.

Page 8. While HTC continue to be competitive and expand scale in the market, we have been able to derive benefit from economy of scale and maintain operating margin at the mid teen level. Operating margin for first quarter was 15.8% and operating expense was 13.4%, both better than original guidance.

Detailed financial are provided on page 9 and 10 and new product launch year to date are shown on page 11 and 12. I will not go through the detail except to highlight the two new products shown on page 12. They are our first glasses-free 3D device, HTC EVO 3D, and a premium multimedia superphone, HTC Sensation. Both have been launched over the past month and both come with the latest technology and many attractive features. And once again they show HTC's sustained leadership in technology and innovation, and we hope you'll have a chance to try them out yourself over the coming months.

I will now hand it back to Winston who will take you through some recent initiatives and outlook for second-quarter 2011.

WINSTON YUNG: Thank you, Joey. Please turn to page 13, an update on key management initiatives. As the Company expands, we continue to strengthen organization in talent management, marketing and operations. R&D capacity will also be enhanced through the addition of approximately 1,000 headcounts.

Phase II of our brand building program is about one year ahead of schedule and we will commence phase III of a brand development in second-quarter 2011. Focus of this phase will be on translating brand awareness into brand preference so customers feel emotionally connected to the HTC brand.

We reported in our January earnings call that we would be looking into making investments in the content and services space. Those of you should know that we have acquired Saffron Digital and made strategic investments in OnLive and KKBOX, and we're well on track to incorporating their services into our overall offering.

Our purpose is to develop a unique and differentiated content experience. First step is to launch HTC Watch in the second quarter of this year. Going forward, we expect content to become an important element of HTC's core competence.

Other important initiatives include the acquisition of 82 patents and 14 patent applications from ADC Telecommunications, expansion of our manufacturing facilities in Taoyuan and China, and forming strategic partnerships with supplier to secure supply of key components.

Page 14. We continue to see strong demand and high visibility going into the second quarter. Second quarter shipment is expected to be around 11 million to 11.5 million units. Revenue is forecasted to be TWD120 billion, which would imply a 97% growth year on year. Gross margin and operating margin are expected to be around 29% and 15.5% respectively.

This wraps up our presentation. Moderator, please start the Q-and-A session.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, we'll now begin our question and answer session. (Operator Instructions). Abhey Lamba, ISI Group.

ABHEY LAMBA, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: You mentioned content is becoming more important. Can you just give us more color on that in terms of opportunity it creates for you? Does it create any additional revenue opportunity as well or do you think it's going to help you sell more devices?

WINSTON YUNG: Okay, thank you for the question. We believe that content is a very significant opportunity for us, and as we said it will become part of our core competence and we aim to create an experience that is unique and differentiated. Content is a way to help us sell more devices, especially so I think in the near future and it will help us create the emotional connection that we talked about, right, for phase III of our brand development program.

I was talking to our chief content officer the other day and he said that there's a song for every mood; there's a movie for every mood. And so it's very important in terms of creating emotional connection.

We will derive revenues from our content service. In the initial phase, because we're just starting, it will not be a significant number compared to what we generate from hardware.

ABHEY LAMBA: Got it. And can you talk about the Windows phones and give a commentary on how do you view Microsoft and Nokia's partnership, and what it would mean for our Windows ecosystem?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, we believe that the Window platform is a good product in itself. It has definitely closed the gap and caught up with the other operating systems of the world. It started late. So we have to give the operating system more time.

And with the joining of Nokia into the operating system, we believe that it will help make the operating system more attractive and it will help create critical mass and help and quicken its developments in terms of applications and having more developers, et cetera, et cetera. So we view it as a part of this development for the Windows platform. And as a big manufacturer and long-term manufacturer of Windows phones, we view it as a positive development for us too.

ABHEY LAMBA: And moving on to your OpEx in Q2, what is causing the jump as a percent of revenues? Is it R&D and marketing investments you talked about? And secondly, the gross margin decline -- slight moderation in gross margin for Q2, is it related to tablets or are there any other things in there?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, at this point we're actually looking at a pretty low operating expense compared to what we have traditionally. So the numbers we listed in the presentation is an operating margin number, which implies a operating expense ratio of 13% or a little bit more than 13%, I believe. So it's actually a low number, and this is the result of economy of scale and operational leverage.

So despite the fact that we're spending more in marketing and research, et cetera, our revenue base is spending even quicker to give us a lower operating expense ratio. Now gross margin is affected by many factors as we have said before. It is very difficult to have long-term forecast of this figure, and the figure that we have in the presentation is our guidance for the second quarter.

If you look back to the first quarter, and as I think Joey alluded to earlier, our ASP actually in US dollar remain flat and unchanged. However, our ASP in anti-dollar came down 6% just because of exchange rates. So it is a number affected by many factors. It is -- a lot of it could be out of our control.

However, I will like to say that we remain a high margin company. We believe in generating high gross margin and we have a very good competitive position in high-end high ASP phones. And as you have seen, we have launched many very attractive leading edge, cutting edge products in the US; 4G, dual core, which will all help maintain ASP and maintain a very attractive product mix.

On the other hand, we continue to work on reducing [bond] cost and maintaining gross margin at a high level. So the strategy of the Company has not changed.

ABHEY LAMBA: Got it, thanks. And my last question is your share count usually goes up in the second quarter. Should we expect similar dynamics in this quarter in terms of share account?

JOEY CHENG: Our share count?

ABHEY LAMBA: Yes.

JOEY CHENG: It depend on -- we have our dividend policy. Sometime we have little bit stock dividend that might increase slightly. But I think not much.

WINSTON YUNG: Yes, we don't spend anything significant.

ABHEY LAMBA: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Asit Verma, Blue Pool Capital.

ASIT VERMA, ANALYST, BLUE POOL CAPITAL: Thank you for taking my question. I'm trying to understand the supply side constraints. So assuming that you could sell every phone that you could make, I'd say 60 million units for the year, would you start running into component shortages or at 70 million units, would you start running into component shortages?

WINSTON YUNG: Right, the supply situation, and in fact, the whole way we manage supplies has improved very, very significantly compared to last year. We have reported to investors and analysts before in the fourth quarter call and at various occasions that we have taken a more strategic approach in terms of working with suppliers. Many people were asking, actually asking us about the high inventory number at the end of last year, and it turns out that our strategy to have ample supply and inventory is the correct one given the earthquake in Japan.

We continue to do that. We continue to work on second sources and work very closely with our partners and suppliers in Japan. So we're taking a lot of measures which means that our second quarter guidance has not been affected and our second quarter shipment forecast has not been affected by the Japan situation.

We also reported before that we have invested in expanding capacity in Taiwan and in China. The capacity in China will be doubled from originally 1 million units to 2 million units and this together with the capacity in Taiwan gives us at this point a capacity of 4 million to 5 million units a month. And the number continues to go up as we complete our expansion in China and Taiwan later in the year. So at this point, we are not having issues of shortage.

ASIT VERMA: I see. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Will Power, Robert Baird.

WILL POWER, ANALYST, ROBERT BAIRD: I guess a couple of questions. At first, just want to come back quickly to margins. I think in the release you alluded to planning to hire an additional 1,000 people in R&D. And of course, you've got some of these new capacity coming up. How should we think about the impact on margins in the second half of the year? Should we expect operating margins to be impacted or will that be offset by continued revenue growth?

WINSTON YUNG: All right. We believe we need to invest in the business and there are many areas that we need to invest in. Software, for example, is one of them. And about I think 600 of the 1,000 planned headcount will be in the software area. And you saw us reinvent and revamp the Sense in the phase II to the tablets to our superphones and multimedia phones, et cetera. So you will, with Sensation, for example, get a much, much more interesting and much more powerful and granular user experience than what we had before.

So we continue to invest. And if you look at the percentage of R&D as revenue, we, at this quarter, the first quarter of 2011, had a number in the range of 3.8% to 3.9%, which compares to the 5%, 6% we had before, which means that there is enough room as a percentage, from a percentage point of view, to invest more in R&D. And we believe that as an innovative company, as a growth company, we should be doing that.

WILL POWER: Okay. And then I want to ask you about the tablet. I guess any update as to expected gross margin impact? How much is that impacting guidance for Q2, and how should we think about second half impact there? And then secondly, as you laid out the unit volume guidance, does that include any tablet expectations?

WINSTON YUNG: Okay, our guidance number combines all types of devices. The tablet number is still too small to be separated as a separate item. So what we have there is a combined number for all types of devices.

I think -- I do not again want to give the shipment guidance on a particular product. But if you look at the market, last year the whole market sold more than 250 million smartphones. This year, according to various institutions like Gartner, the market is likely to sell more than 400,000 smartphones.

The market sold 16 million, 18 million tablets last year. It's likely to sell 50 to 60 tablets this year. So from a numbers point of view, it's still a small number comparing tablets to smartphone. And of course, a very large percentage of those tablet sales will be for Apples, the iPad. So I don't expect the launch of the tablet to have a significant impact on overall margins.

WILL POWER: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Arthur Hsieh, UBS.

ARTHUR HSIEH, ANALYST, UBS: Just want to get a little bit more sense about how we should look at the operating expense even though the expense ratio in the guidance is similar to the level of the first quarter. But if you look into the -- specifically in the administrative expense, in the past couple of quarters, it's been fluctuating.

In the first quarter, it's as low as only 1.2%, but in the third and fourth quarter, it was higher, closer to 2%. I think it makes a difference because this is a part that supposedly should be relatively more stable. And going through the guidance in the second quarter, do you assume that you will have a specific spending for sales marketing or a specific expansion in R&D?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, other -- the maturity of our expenses in marketing, the bulk of it I would say, and then you have R&D, and then you have general administration. So I believe that if you look at the marketing expense as a ratio of percentage, it has actually remained pretty stable. Some region spend a little bit more than we expect, some less because of the timing of the campaign and the product launches, et cetera, et cetera.

On the general administration expense side, it is affected by bonus accruals and all kinds of factors. We can sit down with you to go through a little bit the details. But I think the trend should not be one that fluctuates up and down by a lot. And if you see that, we'll be able to explain that, so -- and we'd be happy to look into the numbers at a deeper detail.

ARTHUR HSIEH: Okay, yes. A separate question is about the unit shipments. I understand that the unit shipment includes the contribution coming from the tablets. So just wondering in this guidance, is there any model that you foresee that could potentially begin shipments into the cut-off date around a late second quarter? Is there anyone that you did not really account for this contribution that potentially might have upside to this guidance?

JOEY CHENG: Well, I think, Arthur, so let me try to rephrase your question. Are you asking how -- are you asking the model of our portfolio to be launched or that to shipped maybe toward the late part of -- later part of the Q2?

ARTHUR HSIEH: Yes, put it this way. What are the models that potentially could come in later in this current quarter and potentially that could cause some fluctuation to the actual shipments as opposed to the guidance?

JOEY CHENG: Well, I'm not sure if I can give you so much detail. But I think if you look at our product portfolio we've highlighted in our slides, I think Desire S, Incredible S and -- they are all shipped already. And so it's going to ship into -- it's shipping in April. And two, I think going into May and June, we're going to have quite a few products to ship too, like most Facebook phone and Sensation, EVO 3D. Yes, it's all going to be shipped from May-June. But I can't tell you which exact date yet.

ARTHUR HSIEH: Sure, yes. Well, just trying to get a sense in terms of how conservative the guidance is because in the past you always tried to be conservative. And in this quarter we just hope that the level of conservativeness is similar.

JOEY CHENG: Well, let me put it this way. If you look at our recent quarter, we've been hitting record high quarter and quarter again. We definitely need to be cautious. Having said we are confident on visibility of our order, [diminished goods], inventory (inaudible) healthy and product rollout recognition is good. But we still need to make sure we can deliver whatever we say. So yes, definitely we need to be cautious on our financial guidance.

ARTHUR HSIEH: Sure, yes. I just want to confirm the last time. Again, so this number, the unit number included a little bit of the tablet shipments, right?

JOEY CHENG: Yes.

ARTHUR HSIEH: Got it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: James Faucette, Pacific Crest Securities.

JAMES FAUCETTE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: I wanted to ask just a couple of questions about how we should think about HTC's continued market expansion. Obviously, you guys have done quite well moving into and taking share at the high end of the market. I'm wondering if you can just talk about how we should think about HTC's move beyond developed markets into developing markets, and what you think the opportunities are there and how that might affect things like your ASPs and margins. Thank you.

WINSTON YUNG: Well, thank you, James for the question. As you mentioned, we have been doing very well in the developed markets, in the US and Europe, et cetera. We are still -- and we saw very good growth in the US market driven by 4G and our new products. So we are very, very happy to see that. And I think we are very far from the end of that trend even in developed markets. We have not forgotten the developing markets. So we believe that they will follow the trend and the development path of the developed markets.

So we're very interested in markets like Brazil, India, Russia, China, the BRIC countries. They are very, very big and can contribute to and drive a lot of growth going forward. So we are making investments in these markets and would very much like to participate in the growth and ride a wave of these markets when it comes. We do not believe that attacking these markets or penetrating these markets would necessarily imply a low ASP.

It's a myth that -- there are many myths about developing countries. But one of them is that China -- China actually is a very brand-conscious country. There's a lot brand companies can do in China, and they are doing very, very well and they have a significant, very significant high-end segment that are very, very brand conscious. So we believe that there are many opportunities there in China not only in the mass market segment, but in the very attractive high ASP high-end segment too.

The same can be said about India. If you look at how many high-end phones over $300 and even higher got sold in India on a monthly basis, you'll see a pretty big number. So I won't necessarily draw conclusions or implications from the expansion to the ASP or the margin. Again, we focus very much on value, driving value growth. We focus very much on innovation and we believe that if we have the right products, the innovative products, then the margin and profits will come.

JAMES FAUCETTE: Great. And then just to give us a sense that in terms of the number of units that you're doing outside of developed markets, I mean is that something that's of your -- in the first quarter, maybe a couple of million units or is it still smaller than that?

WINSTON YUNG: Again, it's difficult to answer this question. We saw very good growth in many markets in Asia, for example, in the first quarter. Of course, if you look at the overall picture, the US continued to be our biggest market which accounted for 50% of revenue last year. And it grew significantly in the first quarter. So if you look at what is driving the current growth and profit, it's still very much the developed markets. But we believe and we saw very good potential and very good growth in the emerging markets too.

OPERATOR: [Laika Lui, Bernstein].

Richard Kramer, Arete.

RICHARD KRAMER, ANALYST, ARETE: I guess just to follow on from that question before -- I have several others, the mysterious country W on page 43 is obviously the US, as you said, 50% of sales. Could you give us, since you didn't this time, a regional split of the rest of sales because you didn't identify any other countries other than Taiwan?

WINSTON YUNG: We don't give that breakdown on a quarterly basis. It would be similar to what you saw for the last year I think.

RICHARD KRAMER: Okay. Now, I guess the next couple of questions, this quarter we saw accrued marketing expenses rise again quite sharply to reach about $790 million and this was against a basically flat quarterly sales. So I am wondering at what point would you start to dip into these accrued marketing expenses which I imagine are co-marketing payments for -- with carriers? And would we start to see the cash get released from that because it's been a huge build up and it's now nearing a billion dollars?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, I cannot talk about that. I think on a quarterly basis we perform an assessment of our accruals and we want our accruals to reflect the -- our best assessment, I would say, on what is likely to be spent. So we will perform that analysis again at the end of the next quarter. And to the extent that we believe that it's too large or too low or adequate level, then we'll make the adjustment accordingly.

RICHARD KRAMER: Okay. And also I just -- it'd be helpful if you can help us understand the $75 million asset purchase of IPR from ADC. And it seems with few exceptions the royalty deals you have aren't really coming up for renewal fairly soon. Many of them are longer term deals. But should we expect you to buy further IPR? And how do you see these purchases contributing to lower costs over time? Should we assume it's a one for one or is there leverage from this IPR purchase that at some point HTC could get royalty income not just have -- use it to mitigate royalty costs?

WINSTON YUNG: All right, Richard, I think this is something that we will do on a continuous basis. Again, we are a tech company and IP is very, very important to us. And when we compare ourselves to companies that have been in the market longer, companies like Motorola, Nokia, et cetera, certainly we believe that we have a weaker pool of patents compared to our competitors.

And this is the weakness. This is a weakness that we would fix. So we will continue on this path of acquiring IPRs that are useful and relevant to our business that we can leverage ourselves, and of course we hope to be generating royalty revenue from these IPRs too.

RICHARD KRAMER: Okay. And also just on that basis, if we look at -- you have made a few small acquisitions this quarter, you bought some IPR, but at this stage you now have $3.3 billion of cash on your balance sheet. And even with the pending bonus share and the dividend payments, it still seems like quite a lot of healthy volume of cash.

Aside from these small IPR purchases, could we expect buybacks at some point in the next year? You have done several times in the past years. Or what are the plans you have for using that capital which is basically not getting employed in the business right now?

WINSTON YUNG: All right. Again, we review that number from time to time driven by the very good sales and revenue that we generate. That number has been going up, as you said. Point number one, we would like to have a good buffer of cash flow. And there may be times of need, and we need to have a conservative balance sheet.

On the other hand, you also have seen our track record. We pay pretty good dividends and we conduct buybacks from time to time. So we very much have the interest of shareholders in mind. We perform these assessments from time to time. And to the extent that we believe it benefits shareholders and is in their interests to return cash to them, we do it.

We don't have immediate plans to do it. I can't tell you when we will do it the next time. We don't have plans at this point, but you can look at our track record. We have been I think a trustworthy manager of the assets and the cash.

RICHARD KRAMER: Okay. And maybe one last question. Certainly, we've seen the spread of ASPs across the portfolio for HTC starting to widen out where you've addressed from middle of last year some lower price tier segments while you still retain the higher price tier. How do you think on a two- to three- or four-year view about the vast low-end smartphone opportunity?

You mentioned emerging markets, and clearly there is some high-end opportunity there. But there seems also to be a very large $100 type or $100 to $150 ASP smartphone opportunity. Is that something on a two- or three-year strategic view that you think HTC need to address or do you rather think of the brand is a premium brand and want to retain the higher ASP across the portfolio?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, we see ourselves as a premium brand, a brand that stands for quality, and we very much go after value. Having said that, we see opportunities in the mass market and we see opportunities in serving more customers and more customer segments. The smartphone is not just for the techies, the smartphone is and will more and more be for everybody.

But in terms of attacking or capturing that opportunities, we would bear in mind that this is an innovative high quality company. And I go back to the examples of Salsa and ChaCha all the time. These are very much entry-level phones, phones for young people; people's first smartphone. However, we put a lot of thought and effort into making it special. It has a high quality feel to it. We do not compromise the user experience. It has a very nice sense experience to it.

It's innovative. We added the social networking elements to it to make it attractive to the segments that send a lot of messages to young people who are on Facebook a lot of times. And many people are like that in Brazil. Many people are like that in Indonesia. And we see a very, very high demand and high potential for phone like ChaCha in these markets.

So being innovative and adding value and capturing the opportunities in different market segments does not equate to necessarily lower margins. We sold more than 5 million Wildfires last year and our margin barely moved.

RICHARD KRAMER: Okay, thanks very much, guys.

WINSTON YUNG: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ben Lu, Seligman.

BEN LU, ANALYST, SELIGMAN: Hi guys. Congrats again on a very good quarter. I've a few questions just on your balance sheet. One, why don't you talk -- or get a little understanding on your prepayments? Now everybody knows that Apple is notorious for some prepaying or pre-buying a lot of their components from their supplier with some people, and that gives them a stronger bargaining power.

When I look at your most recent balance sheet, your prepayments in the quarter to suppliers was quite significant. It was about I think TWD1.2 billion. And if you look at your Q4 figures, it was almost non-existent. Well, so can you talk about what you're thinking and what you are doing in terms of prepayment to suppliers and whether we should see that number continue to creep up because it's never been called out in your balance sheet in the past?

WINSTON YUNG: All right, very interesting. Well, we believe it is very important to secure the supply in this market situation. I think we all know that, and we thank God that we started doing this earlier and before the earthquake in Japan. So we are having, and we said before that we have a more strategic relationships with our suppliers these days, which may include prepayments.

We are open. We are happy to help our suppliers solve their problems. And whatever problems that they have we will able to look into that and support them and help them if they are reasonable as a partner. So, yes, if it helps us secure the supplies and secure the strategic relationship with our partners, we will be very happy to, not just in the forms of prepayments, but in all sorts of ways, support our partners.

BEN LU: Now, was there something that you guys never did in the past and as the new CFO, you decided that is a good use of your large cash balance? And so we expect this figure to continue to creep up going forward?

WINSTON YUNG: It is something that --

BEN LU: Like, I believe that [this is the first time] you ever did that. So --

WINSTON YUNG: It is something that we did not do in the past. I think the way the market has moved, and as you said, the way that -- the way Apple conducts its business, and Apple being very, very big and have a big influence on the supplier market, I think we have to rethink our strategy. And we do that all the time.

And we believe that we're adopting the right strategy. The market is still growing very, very significantly. We need to capture that growth. We cannot sit there and say to our operator, customers and our partners in the world, I'm sorry, we cannot supply you. We are their flagship supplier, one of their flagship supplier these days. We just cannot afford to not being able to supply them.

BEN LU: Got it, okay. And on a similar note, when I look at your inventory, your inventory numbers have continued to go up, especially on (inaudible) and raw materials. And I understand what you guys are trying to do in terms of securing all the components necessary and it was probably a good idea to do it ahead of the quake.

But I wanted to get your views and the CFO's in terms of what you think a long-term inventory turn should be. In the past it was as high as 18 somewhat even 20 times, but now it's been a continued decline. I think last quarter it was just shy of 10 times the inventories turn. So do you have an inventory turn target in mind? Going forward is maybe 10 times a good metric or you're willing to drive that even lower to maybe 5 times? Can you share your thoughts on that?

WINSTON YUNG: We do have a range that we think is appropriate in mind. And I think if you look at the past quarters, you may be able to figure out that range. We did not disclose that range proactively. But you can look at our track record. We certainly disclose that number in our disclosure. And we think that the inventory level at this point is within that heavy range. We do not plan to significantly increase or decrease our inventory turn.

BEN LU: Okay, but in the past, if I look at the past three years -- well, the past years, it fluctuated between 10 and 15 times. So is that a useable range?

JOEY CHENG: Depends. I think also I can add one comment. If you look -- since you mentioned and you're comparing to a couple of years ago, you have to remember at that time our product life cycle has been quite short. Now we have much confident to have a very quite healthy and longer product life cycle.

So every time we want to launch a product, we have better visibility. So -- but actually a downside is that we don't have good inventory on hand to ship. But in the past, maybe if you look at that time, the product life cycle was quite short, right? So we would be always cautious at that time to keep our inventory level lower in case we get into trouble. But now I think this trouble has become more less an issue.

BEN LU: Got it, okay. And can I ask one last question?

WINSTON YUNG: Sure.

BEN LU: I wanted to have a better understanding about your content. And I understand it's like just [differentiation] and I really think that the Sense, to be quite honest, is going to do really well with consumers. But I wanted to see how you can actually monetize the content.

So if you look at Apple, for example, obviously everybody points to iTunes as one of their strong sticking points with consumers. But Apple has historically never been able to make money off of their content even given their scale and their negotiating, bargaining powers with all the studio and content providers.

So as a Company that's obviously much smaller in both balance sheet and scale, can you talk about what your strategy is for securing content with the studios and more importantly how to monetize it, not from a revenue standpoint, but more from a profit standpoint?

WINSTON YUNG: All right. I think if you compare us to, well, some of our competitors I would say, at this point we have much better capabilities on the content side than many. Of course, much of that capability came from the Saffron acquisition, the Saffron CEO, Shashi Fernando, became our Chief Content Officer.

And now there are many people within the Company who has a lot of experience in the content field and very, very good relationship with the content providers, and they know how to negotiate and how to get the best deals and how to generate review from content. I cannot disclose the details of those deals. There are difference. They are very, very complicated.

Now, our understanding of the Apple content situation is slightly different than yours. We believe that Apple is generating significant revenue from their content. Of course, we are no comparison to Apple. We just started. We expect to generate revenue from content, yes. But we believe that in the short term, the main benefits would be in making the overall user experience and the overall offering more attractive, and in that way it will help our sales of hardware.

BEN LU: Okay. I'm aware that way you can generate revenues from (inaudible); you never make money off of it.

WINSTON YUNG: Well, I don't know. I think you have to ask them. Again, our impression is that they are doing pretty well.

BEN LU: Okay, but my understanding was that -- when you talk to Apple analysts that Apple has never made money off of iTunes.

WINSTON YUNG: Okay.

BEN LU: So I'm just curious if you guys think is it something where it's a loss leader or a breakeven leader where you're trying to leave with your content to secure some customers, but -- and you can generate some revenues, but it won't really have any contribution to the profit line?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, again, the standalone P&L of the content business will not be significant in the short term given that we're just starting the offering. But we certainly look at it as a separate line of business. It has a P&L. And I do not remember seeing a big loss numbers from that line of P&L, let me say that.

BEN LU: Got it, okay. Congrats again and I look forward to hearing more about your content strategy in the future.

WINSTON YUNG: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Richard Kramer, Arete.

RICHARD KRAMER: Just a couple of quick follow up ones. One is certainly given the range of Android competitors and the efforts you need to make to stay ahead in terms of differentiation there, would you look at adding any further software platforms that you might support, i.e., would you consider looking at working with Intel's MeeGo, or is there anything else out there that you could consider?

And then I guess another question. When you look at the extension models, the S series products of Desire and Wildfire this year, we've seen that strategy with some of your competitors where they've run into trouble by staying with similar form factors and extension models for too long.

When do you think the right time for HTC to come with a completely revamped industrial design might be? Is that something we should expect to happen in the backend of this year or given the success you're seeing right now with the current set of very similar industrial designs, should we wait for 2012 for that?

WINSTON YUNG: Okay. We work with multiple operating systems. I think people would know that. So we have at this point Windows and Android. We do not rule out working with other operating systems. We do not have immediate plans to work with MeeGo, I can tell you. But we have an open mind, and we're not a single operating system player.

On the S series, I think for certain classic product, products that have become HTC classics, and the -- for example, the Desire name has become almost a brand name of its own, we need to leverage and capture the brand equity or the goodwill and that we build up with the previous products. So that's what we're doing with the S series product. I can't tell you when and how much the Desire will change in the next year or the next 18 months. But we're doing that for our classic products.

At the same time, you see many new form factors, very innovative form factors, phones like the ChaCha, for example. So that or leveraging the equity of our previous successful classic products does not prevent us from innovating and introducing interesting and attractive and newer form factors and we'll continue to do that.

RICHARD KRAMER: And is there any concern at all that at a certain point having multiple skews of carriers that you will be kept in their range plans, i.e., that you've already got several models in both the high and mid tier for them and therefore they will look to diversify just as they have done in terms of introducing you so many years ago?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, we have been a good partner to our operator friends. We have supported them very, very well in terms of products, in terms of timing, in terms of innovation and in terms of listening to them, right, very, very important, we listen to them a lot more I think than our competitors and we try to impress them and surprise them in every meeting.

Every meeting is like the first meeting. We put forth into making our customers happy. And this is what we do. Our relationship, the relationship with our suppliers are secure at this point, are as strong as ever. I cannot -- I do not know, I cannot predict what they will do going forward, but I can tell you that we are very comfortable and we feel that they are very comfortable working with us.

RICHARD KRAMER: Okay, great. Thanks a lot guys.

WINSTON YUNG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: [Lee Andrew], Bear Stearns.

LEE ANDREW, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I have a question first on your branding strategy. You've talked about the phase II you want to get in very soon. Can you tell us in which market, in which countries you're focusing your branding investments at the moment? And as you progressively prepare for extending into BRIC's market, what sort of phasing do you see in terms of investments for developing your brand there and developing your distribution capabilities as well?

WINSTON YUNG: Thank you for the question. We cannot give specific numbers about our investment in branding. I think from an accident number point of view, it will be higher. In the big markets that we're in, part of that is proportional to our sales, part of that is not.

So the part of the branding and marketing expense that is linked to revenue will be larger and much larger for a country like the United States than in China. And I think in total and in absolute terms, the marketing expense in the United States will -- is much larger and will continue to be much larger than in China for several years to come at least.

We will be making investments in the emerging markets to BRIC countries. We need to invest this year and next year to make sure that we have the right brand position and the right distribution systems, et cetera, et cetera, to benefit from the growth of these markets going forward.

So I think on a percentage terms, for example, it will be higher, the marketing and branding expense will be higher in these markets compared to the matured markets because we are making investments. But we're not talking about a huge number because the revenue base in these countries are still small.

LEE ANDREW: And in terms of distribution, to be successful in India and China and Indonesia, it's key to have quite a lot of people on the ground and to be close to a very fragmented distribution set up. What's -- are you building that up already today? It takes time. So if you want to be ready for this market in a year or two, I would imagine you're starting to invest there, to hire people there or to develop relationship with local retailers.

WINSTON YUNG: Oh, yes, we will be working on that. And that is, of course, hard work and quite labor intensive. But we need to make that investments when we have a stronger distribution platform and stronger relationship with the distributors. It will give us I think defendable, sustainable competitive advantage going forward that will carry the Company forward. These are investments in infrastructure that we need to make, and this will be very, very useful for many years to come.

LEE ANDREW: Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Mark Sue, RBC.

MARK SUE, ANALYST, RBC: Winston, just your position at Verizon seems to be very strong at the moment with your LTE device. Is there some thought of kind of dominating this LTE segment with your -- and building on your first mover advantage?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, I think the -- one of the reasons why HTC has been successful is because it is at the cutting edge of technology. We are very fast to market in terms of the most innovative and the phones with the most advanced technology. We will -- I can only tell you that we will continue to do that and we'll certainly be having other products and newer products in the LTE space. And only the market will tell us that we'll be successful in dominating LTE.

MARK SUE: I see. And while popular, one of the concerns is the battery life on the LTE devices. Is that something that should we can see improve over the next quarter or so?

JOEY CHENG: Well, I think if you look at the evolution of the silicon technology and the system technology, things always get improved. And - but I don't know about a specific timing, but I think it's definitely going to be to a very reasonable level in the end.

MARK SUE: I see. Okay. Well, thank you and good luck, gentlemen.

JOEY CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ben Lu, Seligman.

BEN LU: I have another balance sheet question. One, if your warranty reserve expense has continued to creep up on your balance sheet, how should we think about that going forward as a percentage of sale of how much do you need to reserve? Or is it just a function of a greater scale and distribution across the different carriers in the world?

And second, I couldn't find any reserve on your balance sheet for the potential Apple lawsuit. I believe it has already gone to trial in California? Can you give an update on that?

WINSTON YUNG: The short answer on the warranty question is it is driven by the expansion of scale. So I think if you look at the relative size, the percentage, the number as the percentage of sales, you should get a very stable trend or number. We can't talk about the Apple case. We can't talk about it. And we do not disclose specific provisions against this case.

BEN LU: But you have made provisions for it, right?

WINSTON YUNG: I can't talk about that.

BEN LU: But would it be recorded on your balance sheet if it is or do you put it as an off balance sheet item?

WINSTON YUNG: Well, I would rather not break down the number. We do not provide -- of course, the total number, of course, is derived from an assessment of various cases that are in progress. Secondly, the probability of those cases, et cetera, et cetera. But I cannot give you an answer, it would jeopardize our case.

BEN LU: Okay, and I completely understand that. But just one clarification on that is some of the media has said that it has gone to trial without obviously commenting on it for obvious reasons, for legal reasons. Can you confirm whether it has gone to trial?

WINSTON YUNG: It has.

BEN LU: Okay, great, thank you so much.

WINSTON YUNG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. There are currently no further questions from the floor. I will now hand the call back over to Winston for closing comments. Mr. Winston, please begin.

WINSTON YUNG: Well, thank you very much for your time. And, of course, if there's any questions that you did not manage to ask over this call, we'll be very happy to answer e-mails or phone calls that you may have. And have a good day. I look forward to meeting you and talking to you in future conferences and earnings meetings.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your participation in HTC's conference. There will be a webcast replay within an hour. Please visit www.htc.com under the Investor Relations section. You may disconnect now. Good bye.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
htecc : HTC Corporation | applc : Apple Inc | viatec : VIA Technologies Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | itablcm : Tablet Computers | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302011 : Portable/Notebook Computers | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers
   NS
cbrand : Branding | cmarkr : Market Research | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | taiwan : Taiwan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110513e74t00aq7
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 CBL And Associates Properties Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,157 words
   PD
29 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the CBL & Associates Properties first quarter 2011 conference call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterward, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded, Friday, April 29, 2011.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to Stephen Lebovitz, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please, go ahead, sir.

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ, PRESIDENT, CEO, CBL & ASSOCIATES PROPERTIES, INC.: Thank you and good morning. We appreciate your participation in CBL & Associates Properties, Inc., conference call to discuss first quarter 2011 results. Joining me today is John Foy, CBL's Chief Financial Officer; and Katie Reinsmidt, Vice President of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations, who will begin by reading our Safe Harbor disclosure.

KATIE REINSMIDT, DIRECTOR OF CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS AND IR, CBL & ASSOCIATES PROPERTIES, INC.: This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Such statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy, and some of which might not even be anticipated. Future events and actual results, financial and otherwise, may differ materially from the events and results discussed in the forward-looking statements.

We direct you to the Company's various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, the Company's most recent annual report on form 10-K as amended, and Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included therein for a discussion of such risks and uncertainties.

During our discussion today, references made to per share amounts are based on a fully diluted converted share basis.

The transcript of today's comments, the earnings release and additional supplemental schedules will be furnished to the SEC on form 8-K, and will be available on our website. This call will also be available for replay on the Internet through a link on our website at CBLProperties.com. This conference call is the property of CBL & Associates Properties, Inc. Any redistribution or retransmission or rebroadcast of this call without the expressed written consent of CBL is strictly prohibited.

During this call, the Company may discuss non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. A description of each non-GAAP measure and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the comparable GAAP financial measure will be included in the earnings release that is furnished on form 8-K.

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: Thank you, Katie.

We are encouraged with our results for the first quarter, and the continued improvement we are seeing in our key metrics across the board. Same-center net operating income increased 50 basis points over the prior year. Leasing spreads have continued to recover and were positive for the first time in 9 quarters. Portfolio occupancy increased 150 basis points from the prior year. John will discuss in more detail later, but we have closed on more than $660 million in financing activities so far this year, at very attractive rates.

Our year is off to a great start, and we are well positioned to continue this positive momentum going forward. The improving economy continues to benefit our retailers, who experience positive sales growth, with sales per square foot for the first quarter in our portfolio improving 2.9% over the prior year. For the trailing 12 months, sales grew 2.5% to $324 per square foot.

With generally positive economic indicators and improving consumer confidence, we saw strong sales in our malls in April, leading up to Easter, and expect the upward sales trends to continue throughout the year.

These positive sales trends contributed to the continued growth in our occupancy and better leasing metrics. For the quarter, total portfolio occupancy increased 150 basis points to 90.3%, and stabilized mall occupancy improved 70 basis points to 90.4%. We are still projecting for occupancy to end the year 75 to 100 basis points over the prior-year end.

During the first quarter, we completed a tremendous amount of leasing, signing approximately 1.7 million square feet of leases. This included approximately 560,000 square feet of new leases, and 1.1 million square feet of renewals with the remainder signed in the new development portfolio.

The first quarter continued our trend of improvement in leasing spreads. Overall, leases in the first quarter were signed at a 30 basis point increase over the prior gross rent per square foot. While renewal spreads were still negative, they moved in the right direction compared with previous quarters.

We are still facing difficult renewal negotiations with a select few retailers, whose sales have not recovered from pre-recession levels. We are being proactive in replacing underperforming retailers and have used short-term leasing to keep NOI flowing while we secure replacement tenants.

As the economic and retail environment improves, we are seeing retailers boosting their expansion plans and increasing demand for space, benefiting our new leasing activity. New leases are being signed at impressive increases, more than 18% for the first quarter. As spreads turn more positive, we are pushing to lengthen the lease terms. For the quarter, 55% of leases were signed for 3 years or less, an improvement of 5% compared with last quarter.

Turning to development, we have roughly 650,000 square feet of new and expansion projects slated to open this year. Construction continues on our 350,000 square foot outlet center project in Oklahoma City. We are nearly 98% leased or committed with a great lineup of retailers such as Saks Off Fifth, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, Polo, Brooks Brothers, and J. Crew. The strong leasing results indicate the successful reception this project is receiving in the retailer community, and we are still receiving new lease commitments. The opening date is on track for early August.

Stores have started opening at the second phase of Settlers Ridge in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The 78,000 square foot expansion is currently 95% leased or committed, with Michael's, Ross Dress for Less, Shoe Carnival, and Ulta.

Construction is progressing on Alamance West, the 230,000 square foot second phase of our center in Burlington, North Carolina. The project is currently 98% leased or committed, anchored by BJ's Wholesale Club, Kohl's and Dick's Sporting Goods and will open this fall. We have also commenced renovation projects at 4 of our malls, including Hamilton Place here in Chattanooga, Oak Park Mall in Kansas City, RiverGate Mall in Nashville, and Burnsville Center in Minneapolis. The projects are scheduled for completion ahead of the holiday season.

I will now turn it over to John for the financial review.

JOHN FOY, VICE CHAIRMAN, CFO, TREASURER, CBL & ASSOCIATES PROPERTIES, INC.: Thank you, Stephen.

Since our last call in February, we have closed 11 loans totaling over $660 million. The financings were completed at very favorable rates with the weighted average interest rate for all 11 loans at 5.42%. The loans include 6 CMBS loans for 10-year terms, 4 bank loans for 5-year terms, and one institutional loan for a 10-year term.

We generated significant excess proceeds of more than $115 million. 8 of the properties were previously used as collateral to secure our $520 million line of credit. As we pull properties out of this facility, it has become a revolver that can be used for retiring loans that are maturing at 2011 and beyond, as well as providing additional flexibility.

At the end of the quarter, we had more than $820 million available on all of our credit facilities. Our financial covenants remain sound with a debt-to-GAV ratio of 52.7%, and an interest rate coverage ratio of 2.38 times for the quarter compared with 2.2 times in the prior year period.

For the first quarter, we reported FFO of $0.63 per share, which included a net impact related to the sale of Oak Hollow Mall of approximately $0.15. The net impact included a gain on extinguishment of debt and a loss of real estate, which are reflected in discontinued operations.

Total portfolio same-center NOI, excluding lease termination fees, increased 50 basis points in the quarter from the prior-year period. NOI has benefited from the increase in occupancy which has improved our rental stream.

Bad debt expense was virtually flat over the prior year in the quarter at $1.4 million compared with $1.3 million.

Other major items in the earnings results included, G&A as a percentage of revenue was 4.4% for the first quarter compared with 4.2% in the prior-year period. Our cost recovery ratio for the first quarter 2011 was 95.6% compared with 101% in the prior-year period. Variable rate debt was 14.6% of total market capitalization at the end of the first quarter 2011, versus 18.9% as of the end of the prior-year period. Variable rate debt represented 24.6% of consolidated and unconsolidated debt, compared with 28.4% for the prior-year period.

Yesterday, we reiterated our 2011 FFO guidance of $2.10 to $2.15 per share. The guidance assumes NOI growth in the range of negative 50 basis points to a positive of 1%.

We are pleased to start the year on the right track with improving metrics across the board. The entire Company is focused on continuing these improvements throughout the year. We are also moving forward with potential joint venture activity. We are hopeful that we will be able to announce a transaction in the near future.

We look forward to visiting with you at the ICSC RECon in Las Vegas as well as NAREIT in June.

Thank you for joining us today, and we appreciate your continued support. We are now happy to answer any questions you may have.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question coming from the line of Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.

TODD THOMAS, ANALYST, KEYBANC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, good morning, I am on with Jordan. Just circling back in your prepared remarks, you mentioned that there were a select few retailers that continue to underperform. I was just wondering, which categories those are, and what type of replacement tenants you think are fit to go into those spaces.

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: Sure. In terms of categories, the weaker results we saw were in some of the athletic apparel and casual apparel. Some of the renewals we did with greeting cards and with gift and novelty category, that was an area of weakness. Some of the juniors, although some juniors were doing really well, but it is uneven just given the competition in that category. So that was an area where we experienced some difficult negotiations. Those were the main ones.

And then, as far as where we are doing replacements, that is across the board also. Some of the teen retailers are active, Justice and Crazy 8, and stores like that. Some of the other juniors are active in terms of doing new deals, Buckle, Forever 21, people like that.

And then, we are doing a lot with the cosmetics, Sephora, Ulta, you know - is a small box but we are doing a lot of deals with them. Then in shoes, Shoe Department Encore and Finish Line are doing really well. The whole athletic shoe category had a real strong rebound over the last six months.

So hopefully that gives you a little more color.

TODD THOMAS: Okay, certainly.

Then just looking at the tenant lists, it looked like there were a number of Gaps and Abercrombies that you lost during the quarter. I was just wondering, I know that they have announced plans to reduce their overall store counts and shrink their store formats. I was wondering if you had a sense of where that is in terms of your portfolio, and if you expect there to be more to come still?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: Most of the closings that are going to occur are going to happen in the first quarter, because the majority of our lease expirations are in January. So this is the time of year when we will see the majority of that.

As far as Abercrombie and Gap, it is really a combination of factors. We had some that expired, and a couple where we did terminations to replace them, because of their sales performance; and it was a mutual decision. But of the seven Abercrombies that we lost or closed during the first quarter, we have replacements for five of those, and then prospects working for the others. So in those cases, we had a good sense that they were going to be closing, and we've had time to work on the leasing and be proactive to replace them.

With Gap, it is similar. A couple of the Gap situations, they just consolidated their Gap and Gap Kids stores, so one of the stores in those was part of that closing. Then one was the center that we sold. And then the others were just where the lease expiration had occurred and we have replacements for them.

With Gap, of the eight, we have six of those where we have replacements. So again we have known it's coming with them.

We've got great relationships with both companies. We're in constant communications as far as stores that are doing well and aren't doing so well. We watch the occupancy cost ratios carefully so we can be ahead of the curve with them.

TODD THOMAS: Okay, great. And then just lastly, looking at development at Alamance and the Oklahoma City outlet shops, slight uptick in the expected yields. I was wondering if that is related to better rent economics or is it related to cost or the fee structure?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: It is really the rents are coming in better. Oklahoma City, we are exceeding pro forma on the rent levels, and given the occupancy that we are at and pre-leasing we're able to take advantage of that and negotiate better deals.

Alamance is really a combination. We had a little bit of cost savings there, and then the income has improved a little bit.

TODD THOMAS: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Jay Habermann from Goldman Sachs. Please, proceed with your question.

JAY HABERMANN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. John, you had mentioned on the joint venture front that obviously you were hoping to announce something soon. I'm just curious, given that values in real estate have appreciated in the last year so, are your phone calls starting to pick up? And are you getting closer to announcing something? Just curious where you guys are in that process at this point in the cycle.

You also mentioned obviously that the refinancing market was improving as well on the CMBS front. But again, just tying it back to the joint ventures and your thoughts there.

JOHN FOY: Thank you. We've had a lot of calls with regard to joint venture partners. We have been very selective in who we want to create this joint venture with. When we do, we want to do it with the best of the best; and that's what we're focused on.

I think you'll see some results from us in the very near future on that, so I think things are moving along on that front very well. So we are excited about the prospects there.

Granted, the value of properties have gone up and there's been more recognition by the market of the middle markets and what these malls can do. So we are very excited about it and think that the joint venture that we are working on that we will announce in the near future will be a very excited one for us and our shareholders as well.

JAY HABERMANN: Great, I look forward to that.

And then you mentioned as well, Stephen, that renewal is still a challenge. Can you just discuss that a little bit? I know the pace of leasing continues to be very strong, but perhaps can you talk about some of your better performing assets versus perhaps some of the weaker assets? Or is it, really as you said earlier, just a few specific tenants that are holding back the renewals?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: It's more just certain tenants where we did renewals on a portfolio basis, so we did packages; and some of those have been more difficult in terms of the shorter term and the results that we've experienced.

When we look across the regions, I will say that Texas has really been the strongest in terms of spreads, and the weakest has still been in the upper Midwest, so where we have the Wisconsin and Michigan malls. And then it's been pretty steady across the Southeast and the lower Midwest and the other regions.

So there is some discrepancy by region, but unfortunately there are a couple of really tough deals that we've decided to do, because we felt like it was in the best interest of the center or the NOI, but they put a big weight on spreads; and we are making progress, and the numbers are better, and we are really pleased to be in positive territory on a blended basis because we haven't been there in a long time, but we also feel like we're going to continue to make progress and see better results because we are getting through the worst of it and we are definitely seeing things improve.

JAY HABERMANN: Okay, and as you look toward the end of the year, where do you think spreads could move versus that positive 30 basis points that you just recorded? And maybe asking a different way, if you strip out some of those more challenging deals, where are spreads on average today?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: First of all, I can't give you a number for where things are going to be at the end of the year. We are hoping better, but I can't tell you exactly what the number would be. We report signed leases, so we have got a pretty good pipeline; and we are pushing hard to improve the terms of the deals. So we definitely want to get everything in positive territory.

And then, just looking -- the longer terms are definitely producing the better results. So as we said, the new leasing is up in the high teens, and those for the most part are seven- to ten-year deals. So that is really where our biggest priority is, is pushing out the terms, getting a long-term commitment from the retailers, and realizing the value in those spaces.

JAY HABERMANN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Christy McElroy from UBS.

CHRISTY MCELROY, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, good morning, everyone.

Stephen, just following up on your prior comment, you mentioned that the new leasing was primarily 7- to 10-year deals? Can you break out the proportion of those between what was the longer-term leasing versus what was three years or less? I think last quarter you said that the spread was influenced by a few music stores that were shorter-term deals, so I'm just trying to distinguish between the two quarters.

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: Well, there were a few music deals in this quarter, but actually, those were pretty much flat. So that wasn't as much of a challenge this year. There were a couple of other deals more in the junior apparel category that were big negatives and that hurt us.

And then as far as your first question, Christy, the 7- to 10-year deals was roughly 40%. And that is where we are getting the real positive spreads, the high teens, 18%. And then, 55% was less than three years. So that is where we are still trying to improve and bring that number down. We did bring it down somewhat, 5%, from where it had been, but we want to get that number down even lower from where it is. And we will hopefully make progress there.

CHRISTY MCELROY: What was the average duration of the new leases signed in the quarter versus the renewal leases?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: I don't know specifically what the number is, but the range is in that seven to ten -- seven years plus.

CHRISTY MCELROY: Okay. Then just on the 900,000 square feet of space that is over 10,000 square feet that you re-leased in the operating portfolio, can you give us a sense for what kind of cash spreads you saw in that space? So what is not represented in the table here.

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: Could you just repeat that again? I'm sorry.

CHRISTY MCELROY: Sure. In terms of the 900,000 square feet of space that you leased in your operating portfolio, that is not represented in this table - so it's over 10,000 square feet, can you give us a sense for what kind of cash spreads you saw on that space?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: It was probably in the flat range. We don't have it at our fingertips, but some of it was renewals of anchors, and in those cases, those are pretty flat. Every once in a little while we get a little bit of a bump, but they're part of the leases.

And then the other is where we are bringing in boxes, and that is hard to measure because we combined existing spaces and vacant spaces, and sometimes it is even common area or storage space to create for the boxes. So we usually look at it more on a return on investment, and target double digit returns on those. So that is more the way we look at that kind of leasing.

CHRISTY MCELROY: Okay. I'm wondering if you could weigh in on the discussion of the extent to which Apple and Apple Store influences sales and sales growth over the last year at malls on average?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: We'd like to have a few more of those to weigh in on our sales. Their volumes are amazing. They are doing over $25 million, $30 million, just incredible volumes. So they are a great boost for a mall.

We have four in our portfolio. We are talking to them about more. We actually have a couple of licensed Apple Stores, one is in Chattanooga, one is in Nashville, and those do well. They don't do as much as the standard Apple, but they are a huge success. We would love to have more. They definitely drive your sales per square foot up, and it can be almost a 10% impact on the mall's sales per square foot.

The other thing is just that whole category of electronics, with Best Buy Mobile. We have done a lot of Best Buy Mobile deals and they are doing really well. Just having that category in the mall I think is really important. A few years ago everyone was buying electronics off the mall, and now for them to be able to buy them inside the mall is a real improvement. We are pleased with that.

CHRISTY MCELROY: For the malls that you have an Apple Store, to what extent has that store contributed to year-over-year sales growth, at those malls that they're in, over the last year?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: It's not that much for us, because we just don't have that many of them, so when you look at our sales growth, it is coming across the board. And Apple isn't big enough in our portfolio to really make that much of an impact.

CHRISTY MCELROY: Right. I'm just thinking about the particular malls that they're in. So just as you look at that mall, how much has the Apple Store contributed to the growth?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: I don't know. We would have to get that for you. We can get it and talk to you later about it, but it is probably 1% to 2%. I don't think it's swayed it that much.

CHRISTY MCELROY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus. Please, proceed with your question.

NATHAN ISBEE, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hi. Hope you guys are doing well even with all those storms down there.

Just going back to the JV issue. Over the last few months, there has been a number of middle-market malls that have come to market or are about to come to market. Can you just talk about how your discussions with potential partners might have changed to where the venture would go out and possibly purchase some of those malls that are coming to market, leveraging your platform?

JOHN FOY: Nate, we from the get-go have basically said that we think there are two different types of joint venture partners. One is the one that is more driven to the institutional type of approach, which we have worked on that side of it. And that partner, we likewise want it to be in a position to continue to make acquisitions with us as well on that same type of format that they are interested in. So we think that is one joint venture partner.

And on the other side of the equation, we think there is another type of joint venture partner who is more interested in the middle markets and what you can drive as far as dividends, and so we are basically looking at both of those and working on those. So, yes, I think that there is that possibility, and we have had discussions with both partners. Maybe the one -- (multiple speakers)

NATHAN ISBEE: I'm sorry, go ahead.

JOHN FOY: No, I think one - that we are probably further along with regards to this discussion of an institutional type of partner that would like to go out and acquire more market dominant malls in those specific areas. So that I think we've made a lot of progress on.

We've had discussions and we are pretty far along on the other side of the equation as well, because as you alluded to the fact that there are a number of portfolios that are coming up that basically fit our cup of tea as far as their middle market and our ability to add the management expertise to those to see the growth potential there as well.

Thank you for commenting on our weather; it has been very severe. In the Chattanooga area alone there's been 47 deaths and still a bunch of unknown people have not been found, et cetera. So we still - I think there is 60,000 homes without electricity, but Hamilton Place has electricity, and we think that that should bode well for the sales here. Thank you for your expression on that.

NATHAN ISBEE: Sure. And just going back to the JVs for a second, have you spoken to the sellers yet? Or are you underwriting any of that stuff yet?

JOHN FOY: We look at everything. We continue to I guess involve some type of underwriting as well. So yes, we do look at it. We do work on those numbers to see if it makes sense for us or for our prospective partners.

NATHAN ISBEE: All right, thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Craig Schmidt from Bank of America. Please, proceed with your question.

CRAIG SCHMIDT, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Good morning, thanks. Could you tell me what drove the strong same-store NOI in the community centers this quarter?

JOHN FOY: Occupancy increases in those areas were the big motivating factor there. As an example here in Chattanooga, The Terrace, we put in an Ulta and we put in DSW Shoes, and so that helped tremendously; and we put in an Academy, took over an old Circuit City store, so that came online. That was basically one of the big things. They're doing extremely well in this location. And I think that just bodes well of our ability to develop not only regional malls but the associated centers that surround the malls so we can meet all retailers' needs. So I think we are going to continue to see some good results on that.

There was a 600 basis point increase in occupancy in Q1 versus the prior year, so that drove it as well.

CRAIG SCHMIDT: Was that the mini anchors or junior anchors primarily?

JOHN FOY: Yes, it was the junior anchors, like the Ultas and the Academy Sports, which is doing phenomenal business in this market area.

CRAIG SCHMIDT: Okay. I know in the past you have stressed locations in your state capitals. I just wonder, coming on the GDP news, the biggest drag was a plunge in government expenditures down 5.2%. Have you seen any of that translate to the sales of those malls that are near the state capitals?

JOHN FOY: No, I don't think so. I think what we are seeing in those market areas is that they continue to attract additional people to those market areas.

A lot of these areas, like for instance Madison, Wisconsin, is a big university town. So even though you're seeing tuitions rise in those universities, you're also seeing their enrollments go up as well. So I think that bodes well for those towns as well.

I think in Nashville, Tennessee, it's a health and university town as well. So you've seen that mix there. And there is stability still, notwithstanding the fact that these states are going through a lot of turmoil and budget constraints. But I don't think it has impacted that as well, and I think if you look at Meridian Mall in Lansing, Michigan, with Michigan State being there, et cetera, you've got a stability in jobs and hopefully you're seeing some job growth occurring, but not necessarily of the state levels, but like in Huntsville, Alabama, where the military cut back, then you saw the incubation of a lot of private enterprise going into various companies, such as Intergraph who started as a result of the cutback from government. So I think that the market areas where we are, are extremely good.

CRAIG SCHMIDT: To sum up, you're not worried about maybe an extended contraction of the state government in those markets.

JOHN FOY: No, I think you watch it and you're careful with regard to it, but it has not been a problem, but we're focused on that ability to watch that and see and work to overcome any setbacks that occur there.

CRAIG SCHMIDT: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Michael Mueller from JPMorgan. Please, proceed with your question.

MICHAEL MUELLER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, how are you? Couple questions here.

First of all John, going back to your comments on the different JV types. You mentioned one going after market-dominant centers, the one going after middle market centers. Are these discussions you're having with the same partner about different strategies and you're going to pick one? Or could we see you come out with two different announcements with two different strategies? How should we be thinking about that?

JOHN FOY: I think you identified it pretty well, Michael. I think there are two different strategies. I think that there'll be two different types of approaches.

I think we have discussions at the same time with both parties, but one is more focused on the institutional side of it versus the other who was focused on our ability to add value to those properties as well. That's not to say that we can't add value to the institutional properties, because we've got that ability as well. So I think that it is two different partners.

MICHAEL MUELLER: Got it, and both of them theoretically we could see you seed those JVs with existing assets to get it going?

JOHN FOY: Yes, I think so. I think that is definitely a potential, but it is easier if you basically go out and buy additional properties for that guy who is focused on bigger returns.

MICHAEL MUELLER: Okay, got it. And secondly, John, you mentioned -- sticking with you just for a second -- you said recoveries. Just looking at the recoveries down year-over-year. If we're thinking about full year '11 versus '10, do you expect any dramatic change in recoveries?

JOHN FOY: We think it will be down just a little from the prior year's, just because we have seen some utility increases that are costing you a little bit, but this quarter is probably -- we hope that this quarter is off a little, but the 100% maybe is a little high, so we want to come in a little around that area. So the fixed CAM is continuing to be the direction that we are going. I think we're 85% there and 90% there. So as we can convert all of those, it helps us as well.

MICHAEL MUELLER: Okay, great.

Last question, I think you said the mix of leases as of the first quarter that were less than 3 years is about 55%. If you go back to pre-downturn, what's the normal mix of that sub 3-year lease?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: We actually didn't really measure it. We didn't keep track of it as much because it wasn't much of an issue.

MICHAEL MUELLER: So it was pretty nominal, it sounds like then.

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: That's correct.

MICHAEL MUELLER: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question coming from the line of Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.

RICH MOORE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Morning, guys. John, on the Fayette Mall, did the extra $100 million of excess proceeds, did that go to pay down the line of credit further?

JOHN FOY: Yes, it did. And as of today we've probably got on our lines of credit an availability in the range of almost, I think it's about, $980 million. So it gives us tremendous flexibility, and so we continue to watch that.

Fayette is just a good example of what we've been able to accomplish with that property since we bought it from Jacobs. Great re-leasing there. The institutional partner who put the mortgage on it had it before and wanted to keep the asset as well. It's a great market area; it is a great asset; and we think that the fact that we were able to finance in excess of $115 million in proceeds speaks well of our portfolio because today's world is that everybody is underwriting in a much more difficult way, with more care. And so I think we were pleased that we were able to finance over $115 million and bring down those interest rates.

RICH MOORE: Okay, good, thank you. And then so basically with $1 billion of free capacity, you could pretty much put anything coming due on the line of credit while you wait to see if you can finance it with a mortgage.

JOHN FOY: Exactly. That is the beauty of what we did with that $520 million line, was to create it as a revolver so that we can take care of those opportunities as they come up. If the markets lock down on us, we've got that availability as well. So from the standpoint of flexibility and the ability to run the Company going forward, we've got maximum flexibility and we feel very, very comfortable and confident as to where we are.

RICH MOORE: Okay, thanks. And then, I have a couple more, if I could, guys. On the disposition front, everybody else's selling properties. Have you guys got anymore that you want to sell?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: We have been marketing some of the community centers and we sold some stuff last year, and we have a couple of other things that we are working on. So we have always got a few things that we are talking about.

We are not taking a big portfolio and listing it or anything like that. We feel like our best strategy for selling things is to do it on more of a targeted basis with local buyers or regional buyers, and we get the best pricing. So we've been doing it in more of a low-profile way. But we are always looking at dispositions as a way to upgrade the portfolio. And certain properties for various reasons like the community centers, we've sold them as a source of equity and that has worked well for us and we'll continue to do that.

RICH MOORE: Any lower-end regional malls that you might sell?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: There is a couple of malls that we think are good targets for disposition. We sold a few; we sold a couple last year that are in the lower sales-per-square-foot range, and also we didn't see any growth opportunities because they were maxed out. So those, we felt, made sense, and we are not just limiting to the community centers. There are a couple of malls as well that might make sense to sell.

RICH MOORE: Okay, thank you.

Last thing I have, help me understand this short-term lease situation. I would have thought -- and maybe this is just naive, but I would've thought as the economy got better here that the volume of short-term leases would've shrunk very quickly in conjunction with an improving economy. And it seems to be going down. But going down very slowly. What is the strategy behind so many short-term leases?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: It is getting better, and there is just a lag that takes time for it to get it to the level that we want it to be. So it is fewer now than it was a year ago, and these are signed leases, so the negotiations occurred probably three to six months ago in a lot of cases. So as things get better, as sales get better, just in general, that is going to improve.

We want it to happen faster also but unfortunately it just doesn't turn on a dime. So it is a big push for us to get down that percentage. Like I said, the lease spreads are the worst for the shortest term leases. So the better we can do in terms of lease term, the better our lease spreads will be. And it will translate into NOI growth. And that is really our goal. So we are on the same page with you on that.

RICH MOORE: So by year-end, would you be 25% or lower or is that unrealistic?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: I don't think it's going to go to that extent. There is always a certain percentage of it. It's not 25%. There's probably always going to be a third that we want to be short because we want to move people around, we want to give ourselves flexibility. Our definition of the value of the space is different than the retailers'. So we want to keep the space occupied while we find someone else.

So I think even when things are booming, there is still a pretty good percentage that is going to be shorter term, just not as high as it is now.

RICH MOORE: Okay, very good. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Ben Yang of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. Please, proceed with your question.

BEN YANG, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Good morning. You guys were the first mall REIT without an outlook platform to announce plans to develop an outlet. You have about six months under your belt. You're about to open up your first project in a few months, and that looks like that's going to be very successful.

So I was wondering if you could maybe talk about your expectations for additional outlet opportunities in the coming year? Maybe how many developments you see CBL participating in, and whether Canada might also be a part of the game plan?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: We are not looking at Canada, so I can tell you that. And as far as other projects, our way of doing any announcement of a new project is we don't announce it until it is real. So I can't give you any definitive numbers on that.

We are looking at other projects in the outlet space, and as a lot of people have commented, it's become a more crowded space, more competitive. But we do think there will be opportunities for us.

We have Horizon who is active in the outlet space as our partner in Oklahoma City, so there are things that we can look at with them, or we can look at things separate. We have good opportunities and we have a lot of good relationships that we've been able to develop through Oklahoma City with the outlet retailers.

Then there is just a lot of convergence; and in a number of cases it is the same people that are doing conventional retail and outlet retail at the retailers.

So we have started talking more -- we've gotten calls from property owners and other people that have projects, just in light of Oklahoma City and how well that's done, so I guess it is a long way of saying I can't tell you exactly how much, but it's something we're committed to. We expect to continue to generate some more projects.

BEN YANG: And when you say you won't announce until that opportunity is real, does that mean that you have optioned the land or that you have actually begun construction somewhere?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: We don't announce until we are either about to start construction or starting construction. And that has just been our practice over the years.

Even when you option land, there is a lot of hurdles to get over in terms of pre-leasing, So we don't want to announce something unless we're confident that it's going to go forward. And we don't buy the land until the project is ready to go either. So the option is only one part of the equation.

BEN YANG: Okay. And then you did comment on the space being a little crowded. We are obviously starting to see some of your peers basically compete to build in the same sub market, and just trying to understand what CBL brings to the table and how you might be successful in competing with some of your peers? Is it going to be the conversions that you think you have an upper hand on? Or is the Horizon venture strong enough to go head-to-head with like a Simon or a Tanger?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: I think there is -- different people focus on different markets. So we are going to be more focused on the middle markets like Oklahoma City and not as focused on a Phoenix or a Houston or some areas where some of the other companies are competing. So that's been our strategy with most of our projects and our malls over the years, and I think we'll be consistent with that with the outlet centers.

As far as what we bring to the table, the outlet center business is fragmented with -- other than Simon and Tanger, a lot of small companies that have not a ton of projects and don't have -- are private, don't have access to capital, so I think we bring a stronger balance sheet to the equation. That helps us.

Then our relationships with retailers help a lot, and retailers have always over the years pointed us to opportunities and helped us, and I think that will help us as well here. So it's those same core strengths, the relationships and the financial strength, that have helped us in our underlying business will help us in the outlet centers.

BEN YANG: Okay, great, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Quentin Velleley from Citi. Please, proceed with your question.

QUENTIN VELLELEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, good morning. Michael Bilerman is on as well.

Just talking about the leasing spreads again, I know you have had 2.5 years where you have had negative renewal spreads and a lot of short term renewals. So I assume given that it's 2.5 years that you have some of those rents that you'd have cut and signed on shorter term leases, they're coming back into the renewal spreads.

So for the quarter, can you just talk a little bit about any tenants you had that were on shorter term leases that you resigned, whether you were able to increase the rent? Whether you were able to extend the terms or whether those tenants are leaving the mall?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: We don't track the short-term leases, where we're renewing them; and we don't know what percentages of the short-term have already been on short term, but it has to be that a pretty good amount is, although I think the spreads are always going to be better once we've taken that hit on the short term renewal.

But really, the strategy is to replace those and it just takes time. We have had some success. We had a Gap deal where we split the space into a couple of retailers at one of our malls in Texas, and we got a positive 24% increase there. We had another Gap deal in one of the malls in the Midwest where we replaced with another juniors retailer, but we got a positive double-digit spread there. So where we are replacing them, we are getting the results and worse case, it's flat, but most cases we are getting some improvement there.

We are also looking to expand some adjacent stores into some of these spaces, so because of the timing, we'll do a shorter term renewal to give that expansion time to play out.

So it is frustrating how long it takes for us and how slow things are in terms of really getting the progress, but we are encouraged that we are moving in the right direction, and 30 basis points is positive. We feel like that is a good thing compared to where we've been. We see it continuing to improve, we have some good momentum, and our markets, the sales are better despite some of the headwinds with gas prices and food inflation. Still, the economies are better.

We have been doing a lot of mall tours the past month or so, and unemployment has come down 200, 300, 400 basis points in a lot of the markets because of just stabilizing the economy. The job growth really takes precedent over some of these other factors, and we feel like things are definitely improved and are going to continue to help us in our leasing activity.

We did a lot of leasing, like I said we did 1.8, million square feet. So there was a big volume of leasing in the first quarter because so many of our renewals happen this time of year.

QUENTIN VELLELEY: But I guess, in coming quarters, what we should expect to see in the leasing spread batteries a moderate improvement in renewal spreads, but sort of strong positive spreads in the new leases as you replace some of those short-term leases that come off? Is that fair to assume?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: Yes, that is fair. That's the way we see it going and that's what we're looking for.

QUENTIN VELLELEY: Okay. Just secondly, just some comments on replacing Abercrombie and some of the Gap stores. I assume they occupy some of the better space in some of your malls. Have you been replacing those spaces with existing tenants in the mall? Or are you able to get external or new tenants into the space?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: For the most part, it is new retailers coming in to the mall. A couple of them were expanding existing retailers, but I would say primarily, it is new retailers.

One of them we replaced -- when we did the Apple at Fayette Mall, it was part of an old Gap space, and Gap relocated and consolidated into the Gap Kids, so there is just a lot of moving pieces always.

But Gap has done a lot to refine their strategy over the past few years. They have been very public with the fact that they are shrinking their US fleet of Gap stores, and they have too much square footage, and we have some malls that have Abercrombie, they have an Abercrombie Kids, and they have a Hollister. And they have got 15,000, 20,000 feet of square footage and we don't expect them to operate that amount of square footage in the future.

So we're being proactive and working with them and talking to them about situations where it makes sense to consolidate or replace certain stores. So that has always been part of the business, and it's going to continue to be like it was this quarter.

MICHAEL BILERMAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Stephen, this is Michael speaking. Has the mix shifted between the national, regional and local over the last three years?

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: Hi, Michael. I don't think it has shifted that much. We are still over 80% nationals and large regionals. And that's been pretty consistent.

We were more aggressive in late '08, '09, bringing in some local retailers and being more aggressive on rents because we wanted to keep occupancy levels at a higher level, so we had more locals at that time. And we view having locals as a good important part of the mix, although mostly the locals end up being the temporaries, and that's stayed pretty consistent as far as the percent of mall space that they occupy.

MICHAEL BILERMAN: Okay, and then just on the joint venture where you are selling assets to a partner, can you just give us -- size wise, what are we talking about in terms of gross asset value and effective equity proceeds that you are trying to dry out?

JOHN FOY: I think that those are the things that we continue to discuss with our partners, and we sort it out to meet each other's needs and do it the best way possible. So as far as the ability to define that or tell you that, I think it is so much driven by what we think is best for us and what we think is best for our partner and what we think we can do going forward together as partners.

So there is no fit criteria, there is no set idea. We think that what we are attempting to do and what they are attempting to do, we can meet in the middle and basically come out in a best position for both of us so that we can see growth in those joint venture opportunities.

MICHAEL BILERMAN: There's no sense of whether this is a $250 million, $500 million or $1 billion, just so we get a sense of what to expect as these things unfold.

JOHN FOY: I think, Michael, where we are on that is that we are discontinuing to discuss and sort through those various questions that you raised, and it's something that we address and continue to have conversations with our partners. When the opportunity to present itself and present ourselves to the market, there will be some identification at that time.

But I think where we are is that we are focused on the outstanding partner who basically shares our same vision as to what we want to accomplish. We are having great discussions and we think we are getting closer with the best of the best.

MICHAEL BILERMAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you.

Mr. Lebovitz, there are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back to you. Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.

STEPHEN LEBOVITZ: Okay, we would like to thank everyone, and again we appreciate your support. We look forward to seeing you at the RECon in Vegas and NAREIT in New York over the course of the next few weeks. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
iretreit : Retail REITs | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | icre : Construction/Real Estate | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c184 : Joint Ventures | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110513e74t0069a
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Brightpoint Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,018 words
   PD
29 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to the Brightpoint first quarter ending March 31, 2011 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At the end of the presentation there will be a question and answer session. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
Brightpoint would like to remind its shareholders that there is a toll-free 24-hour investor relations line, 1-877-IIR-CELL. That's 1-877-447-2355. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Tom Ward, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

TOM WARD, DIRECTOR, IR, BRIGHTPOINT, INC.: Good morning, and welcome to Brightpoint's quarterly earnings release conference call to discuss the results of the first quarter ended March 31, 2011. With me today are Robert Laikin, Brightpoint's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Tony Boor, the Company's Executive Vice President, CFO, and Treasurer. In addition, J. Mark Howell, President of Brightpoint Americas, is available for the question and answer session.

Please be aware that certain statements made during this call that are not historical may be forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A variety of risks and uncertainties could cause the Company's actual results to differ from the results implied or expressed in such forward-looking statements. Please refer to the cautionary statements and risk factors in the Company's earnings release and the Company's filings at the Securities and Exchange Commission. These cautionary statements and risk factors are incorporated into this conference call by reference.

This presentation is being made on the 29th of April, 2011. The content of this presentation contains time-sensitive information that may only be accurate as the day hereof. If any portion of this presentation is rebroadcast, retransmitted, or redistributed at a later date, Brightpoint will not be updating the material that is contained herein.

Before we begin, I want to remind everyone that a reconciliation of our non-GAAP disclosures to GAAP can be found at www.brightpoint.comunder the Investors section. A replay of today's call will be archived on the Company's website beginning approximately two hours after the call has ended.

I will now turn the call over to Robert Laikin, the Company's Chairman of the Board and CEO. Bob?

ROBERT LAIKIN, CHAIRMAN, CEO, BRIGHTPOINT, INC.: Thank you, Tom.

I'm pleased with Brightpoint's first quarter 2011 results, which reflect our continued focus on execution and discipline in managing our business. Our expertise of delivering unique value through wireless supply chain services, along with honoring our commitments, and delighting our customers, allowed us to outpace the unit growth rate of the wireless handset industry in the first quarter of 2011. Our commitment to customers and our strong first quarter financial results were validated by Brightpoint being included in Fortune Magazine's World's Most Admired Companies list this year, an honor we're very proud to have achieved for the fourth time in the last five years.

Brightpoint handled 27.2 million wireless devices in the first quarter of 2011, which was a record amount of units handled in a first quarter. The 27.2 million units represent an increase of 21% as compared to the first quarter of 2010, and only a 6% decrease sequentially. We believe the overall market declined less than 10% in the less first quarter of 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. Included in the total units that we handled this quarter were 22.4 million logistics service units which is another record for a first quarter.

Our better than industry growth rate indicates that we continue to gain market share in the first quarter of 2011.

Revenue in the first quarter of 2011 was $1.1 billion, an increase of 40% over the same period in 2010. This year-over-year increase in total revenue was driven by strong growth in our distribution business, including a very strong average selling price of more than $200 per unit.

On an as-adjusted non-GAAP basis, our income from continuing operations was $14 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2011 as compared to $0.15 in the same period in 2010. Our disciplined approach to managing our business produced financial results that exceeded our expectations and were very good in terms of profitability and outstanding in many important balance sheet metrics. Tony Boor, our CFO, will provide more details on our financial results in his prepared remarks.

During the first quarter of 2011 we continued to make progress on our strategic and operational initiatives, which positively contributed to our financial results and position us well for the future. Since completing the acquisition of Touchstone Wireless in December of last year, we've made significant progress integrating the operations. We expect the integration to continue through the end of this year as we focus on executing on behalf of current Touchstone Wireless customers and introducing Touchstone's current services and capabilities to existing Brightpoint customers. We are seeing strong interest from our manufacturing and network operator and MVNO partners for our new reverse logistics and repair services, and we believe this reflects the industry's demand for an end-to-end wireless supply chain solution.

Last week, we announced the closing of a strategic investment in Intcomex, a leading distributor of information technology products focused solely on Latin America and the Caribbean markets. This investment will significantly expand our participation in the Latin America region and will enable us to capitalize on our global long-term relationships with leading wireless manufacturers, carriers, resellers, and retailers in this region. Our 145,000 square foot Center of Excellence in Boras, Sweden is now operational and equipped to provide extensive logistics and distribution services for leading companies in the Nordic region. We have made significant progress on our new 533,000 square foot Center of Excellence in Plainfield, Indiana, and we expect this facility to be operational in the third quarter of this year. In the first quarter of this year, we also closed on the purchase of a new 264,000 square foot facility in Reno, Nevada, to service the western region of the US. We will continue to invest in infrastructure and people in all of our geographies to maintain our leading position in the global wireless industry.

I am proud of the entire Brightpoint team's focus on the execution of our strategic plan. Our Company is well-positioned for the future. Finally, I'd like to thank all Brightpoint employees worldwide for their dedication and hard work in the first quarter of 2011. Now I'll turn the call over to Tony Boor, our Chief Financial Officer.

TONY BOOR, CFO, BRIGHTPOINT, INC.: Thank you, Bob. For further details on the items discussed in this call, please refer to our webcast presentation available at brightpoint.com and yesterday's press release.

I'm pleased with our financial performance during the quarter. GAAP EPS from continuing operations for the quarter was $0.11 per diluted share, and on as adjusted basis we delivered non-GAAP EPS of $0.20 per diluted share. This represents a 57% increase on a GAAP basis and a 33% increase on an as adjusted basis over the prior year. Please refer to our earnings release and website for more details about the adjustments made to our GAAP results.

Consolidated gross margin was 7.8% for the quarter. Distribution gross margin was 3.5%, which was a decrease of 120 basis points from the fourth quarter. This decline was primarily the result of a lower mix of business in the EMEA due to normal seasonality, a decrease in gross margin in EMEA, and a change in the business model of our Southeast Asia operation. EMEA has had the highest seasonal decline from the fourth quarter to the first quarter of our three regions and typically also has the highest distribution gross margin for the regions. Thus, a lower overall distribution revenue and profit from EMEA lowers our overall gross margin.

We also had a decrease in gross margin in EMEA due to a proactive decision to sell inventory at lower gross margin for a variety of reasons, including lowering inventory levels of particular handset models in anticipation of program launches coming in the second quarter, competing in a slightly overstocked marketplace, and anticipating new pricing in the second quarter from certain manufacturers. In the short-term, we are focusing on pursuing additional distribution market share in all of our regions. In some cases, that increased market share is coming at the expense of lower gross margins, while still obtaining acceptable levels of return on invested capital.

Logistics services gross margin was 40.3% for the first quarter, which was a decrease from the fourth quarter, primarily due to acquired Touchstone operations. Excluding Touchstone, logistics service margin was 45%, which was a decrease of 290 basis points from the fourth quarterdue to costs related due to the implementation of a new accessory fulfillment program in EMEA.

As-adjusted SG&A expense was $61.9 million in the first quarter, which is an increase of $2 million from the fourth quarter of 2010. SG&A expenses associated with Touchstone represented $3 million of the increase for the first quarter of 2011. As adjusted SG&A on a per unit basis was approximately $2.28 per unit, a decrease of 4% of the first quarter of 2010. These metrics include SG&A expenses from the acquired Touchstone operations, but the units handled by Touchstone are not included in our units handled metric, as Touchstone handles largely used devices. Excluding SG&A expense for Touchstone, as adjusted SG&A on a per unit basis was approximately $2.17 per unit.

We delivered strong returns for our shareholders in the quarter. Our ROIC was 13% for the trailing 12 months, which is within our long-term target range of 12% to 15%. This includes the impact of changing the tax rate used in our ROIC calculation from 35% to 30% based on a decrease in our average effective tax rate over the last several quarters. Return on tangible capital on a trailing 12-month basis was 43%, which exceeds our target long-term range of 35% to 40%. Both of these improved ratios reflect our disciplined and successful approach in managing our balance sheet and our overall business.

Inventory was approximately $375 million at the end of the first quarter, which is an increase of $63 million from the fourth quarter of 2010. Days inventory on hand was 32 days, which is an increase of six days from the fourth quarter of 2010. Inventory at the end of the first quarter includes $75 million of inventory received during the first quarter from a key vendor in Southeast Asia in preparation for a second quarter promotional activity and the receipt of inventory that had been previously delayed due to supply constraints. Excluding the receipt of this product, inventory would have been approximately $300 million at the end of the first quarter, and days inventory on hand would have been approximately 27 days.

EBITDA was $26.2 million for the first quarter of 2011, which is a 53% increase from the first quarter of 2010 due to improved operating results in all of our regions as well as addition of the Touchstone operations.

Debt at the end of the first quarter was approximately $196 million, and average daily debt during the first quarter was approximately $325 million. Ending debt and average daily debt included the impact of the purchase of Touchstone Wireless for approximately $76 million and the purchase of the 533,000 square foot facility in Plainfield, Indiana, for approximately $18 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as the purchase of a facility in Reno, Nevada, for approximately $12 million in February of this year.

We have reiterated our previously disclosed estimates for units handled and earnings per share for fiscal 2011. We have also provided estimates for capital expenditures in 2011. We currently anticipate capital expenditures of $59 million to $63 million in 2011, which represents a 40% to 50% increase from 2010. The increase includes the purchase of the Reno facility and the build-out of our new Centers of Excellence in Americas and EMEA regions, which account for over half of the estimate, as well as the expansion of our Touchstone business and strategic initiatives.

I would like to thank all of our employees worldwide for their continuing contributions for our successful performance, and I'd also like to thank you for joining us today. We would now like to open up the line for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). We'll take our first question from Ittai Kidron from Oppenheimer.

ITTAI KIDRON, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks. Tony, I wanted to understand again some of the margin commentary you had, specifically to two areas. One, as you mentioned, you had to write down some inventory, yet your inventory is substantially higher still December to March. So should we expect continued write-downs into June, September? I'm trying to understand how much the increase in inventory because of the inclusion of Touchstone versus a true increase in your underlying inventory.

TONY BOOR: Yes, IttaiThe inventory balance at the end of Q1 includes $75 million of inventory that we received during the quarter in Asia-Pacific, so it's really a different geographical issue than what we had coming into Q1. That inventory in Southeast Asia was purchased in anticipation of some big promotional activity that's going to be run in Q2, and so at this point we would not anticipate any issues from an excess or obsolescence prospective on that increase of inventory. I think when you pull out that $75 million that we bought in advance, we're below 30 days of inventory going into Q2.

ITTAI KIDRON: Yes, but is this purchases from new customers? I'm trying to understand why there is such a big purchase in the March quarter. It doesn't sound --

ROBERT LAIKIN: Ittai, it's Bob. We have key programs with specific vendors. Asia is a focused growth market -- focused growth region for us. It is a specific vendor for a specific program with a large amount of inventory that came in late in Q1. We're very comfortable with where our inventory level is, excluding that one promotional set of inventory. It's not that we're uncomfortable even with that as well.

ITTAI KIDRON: Okay. And I wanted to follow-up on the margin. Tony, in the past you've talked about a certain gross margin range. It seems like certain things are happening. One, you're making some strategic decisions to be aggressive in certain places, so I would assume to increase your business, especially in Europe, but there's also a change in mix in that you've added a business that has a lower margin profile. How should we think about the average gross margin ranges for your distribution and logistics? What would be a normalized new margin ranges that you'd expect the business to be within over the next few quarters?

TONY BOOR: Absolutely, Ittai. There are as you said, there was a lot of moving pieces, and maybe I'll walk through those real quick because I'm sure a lot of people have questions on the gross margin lines, certainly distribution. So I'll walk through those first, then get to your questions on kind of forward-looking for both distribution and logistics.

I will start with some of the biggest pieces on some of the gross margin impact on distribution for Q1 versus Q4 and prior year. As you know, EMEA is our highest distribution gross margin region historically, and on top of that, EMEA also has the highest historical seasonal distribution decline from Q4 to Q1. If you go back a few years, the decline was actually quite a bit more substantial. Four years ago, the decline was 32%, Q4 to Q1; the next year 28%; last year 22%; this year we had a 20% decline in units. So that seasonal decline we're seeing in EMEA is actually improving. That being said, it's still much more substantial of a seasonal decline than in the other two regions and what we see as a company overall. Those two factors being a highest gross margin region coupled with the seasonal decline, obviously Q1 has a fairly substantial impact on our overall distribution gross margins.

This year we also coupled that with Southeast Asia actually grew Q4 to Q1 and as you know, that newer business model that we took on there midyear last year has a lower gross margin than our historical models did previously. So I think when you couple EMEA normal seasonal decline, which is large, and the lower gross margin, higher mix of Southeast Asia, you get the biggest piece of the gross margin impact.

Then to your point, we also went to Q1 with some extra inventory that got to us very, very late in the year, and also some additional receipts early in Q1 coupled with some softer market conditions in Europe. And I don't think there was a soft market from a unit prospective, but certainly from a pricing prospective. There was more pressure than normal in Europe, and we were trying to move through the excess inventory, so we took a bit of hit to gross margin in Europe in the quarter that I would hope is not going to repeat itself, about you that also had a fairly significant impact on the gross margin.

So all that being said, I would expect our distribution gross margin in our historical range of 4% to 4.5% to still be good. Obviously, as we go forward, growth in Southeast Asia, growth in the Middle East, those were a lower margins business, they could have a downward pressure on our overall distribution gross margins.

ITTAI KIDRON: In logistics, is that a 40-42 range now, given the four or five point step down in the inclusion of Touchstone?

TONY BOOR: Yes, I think Touchstone as we kind of alluded to the last couple of quarters, or last quarter, because of the inclusion of the spare parts and you don't get a service type margin on parts, that's going to have downward pressure on our overall logistics margin. You saw that this quarter with a full-quarter inclusion. Touchstone, the key there will be does how much does that business grow and then what impact will it have. So if it continues to grow faster than our other logistics business, it could have some additional downward pressure on overall logistics gross margins. Then we also had the ramp up of a new accessory program in EMEA, and the start-up cost on that program had a slight impact -- downward impact on the logistics margins that I would hope turn back the other direction a little bit as the program ramps up.

ITTAI KIDRON: Okay. Lastly for me,Bob, on a strategic front in Europe, clearly you're trying to be aggressive there in getting new business, but what I'm trying to understand is the pricing level that you're setting now in trying to get this new business. Is this in the anticipation that as that business grows that the margin normalizes? Or this is a new bar for margins, and if so, why shouldn't we be concerned that all other businesses that you have in Europe will reset to that level as well?

ROBERT LAIKIN: Well, we haven't changed our strategy anywhere, including in Europe. This services businesses that we're building the infrastructure for in Europe, there haven't been any significant margin impacts on the logistics side. Tony touched on the reasons why the margins were low on the distribution side in Europe, so we anticipated lot of new products rolling out in the second quarter, and we got shipped a lot of inventory in January. And we did what we do, is manage our inventory very effectively. Overall our strategy, whether it's Europe, the US, or Asia, is -- on the distribution side specifically -- is to be aggressive now and take market share from our competition, and sometimes you have to do that by offering the best price.

So that's not a new strategy. Being relevant in distribution is part of our strategy. One of our competitors filed in an IPO filing a week ago or so that in the US market they aren't focused on topline revenue, and they're now going to focus on in the US on margin because their margins went lower than what they expected. As far as I'm concerned, they opened the door for us, and in the US market we're very aggressive. So whether it is a tablet or a smartphone or traditional handset, we are going to be aggressive, we are going take market share aggressively.

We feel that to be relevant to the manufacturers and to the customers, you have to take market share, you have to be the biggest buyer of products. And by doing that, once you have the customers, then they start buying higher margin products from you, whether it's an unlocked smartphone or an accessory or an after-market warranty in a box, or some other product that you're offering that is at a higher margin. So we're aggressive doing that.

One of the areas of real growth for us in distribution is the whole tablet market where what we're seeing is about 60% of tablets being sold are Wi-Fi only tablets, so there's no carrier involved in that transaction. And again, that gives you the opportunity to sell a distribution product that is a higher ASP, because tablets are significantly higher than a low-end handset. So you might be willing to have mere gin closer to 3% than less say 6%, but the dollars you're earning are the same or higher. At the same time, you then have the ability to sell all of the ancillary products that go along with the tablets. But with the unlocked phone, as the carriers move away through the whole replacement cycle from resubsidizing the same customer for the same phone over and over, because that business model, quite frankly, doesn't work.

ITTAI KIDRON: Very good, guys.

ROBERT LAIKIN: Thanks, Ittai.

OPERATOR: We'll hear next from Mike Walkley from Canaccord Genuity.

MIKE WALKLEY, ANALYST, CANACCORD GENUITY: Great, thank you. Bob, just building on that last comment. There's obviously some concerns given your exposure to RIM and their pre-announcement last night. Could you update us maybe on your exposure to HTC, who had stronger results, and RIM? And also your view of the market, with Nokia's transition to Windows and the Apple and Android Ecosystems continue to gain share? How important is a long-term relationship with Apple to your long-term distribution business?

ROBERT LAIKIN: I'll try to answer all five of those questions.

The first one, RIM's pre-announcement, from my understanding of it is, it was related to Latin America and to North America. Starting with Latin America, Brightpoint does very little business with RIM in Latin America. Our understanding is that most of the distribution in Latin America -- and I don't know this as a fact, but it's our understanding -- most of the distribution in Latin America goes through Brightstar. So I assume that's a Brightstar issue with RIM in Latin America. And I don't know what any details, what it means, and what the specifics are.

As it relates to the US, again I don't know any specifics, but RIM sells most of their units in North America directly to the carriers. So Brightpoint, unless we're providing the logistics services on behalf of the operator, that RIM sale doesn't impact us. And even if it was an operator that switched from RIM to Apple or RIM to HTC, it doesn't effect Brightpoint logistics units. We're still handling units, just a different unit. It's pretty clear to me -- and again, I don't know anything as a fact, but it's clear to me that if RIM had issues in North America it was probably at Verizon as Verizon took in more iPhones. As they launched the iPhones, they sold -- I think, they announced 2 million iPhones. I assume RIM loss a normal share of their normal business, and HTC and Samsung and everyone else who was selling at Verizon, but I'm pure speculating.

As it relates to Brightpoint's business with RIM, our business has been selling in the Asia-Pacific region and in Europe. We're a major player with them in both markets, and our business is solid with RIM. And we're excited about RIM. RIM is announcing a whole new transition of products on the handset side, and we're bullish on RIM. With the RIM PlayBook, we're also very bullish on it. We're selling those products as a distributor in several markets.

And I can tell you a story that doesn't necessarily mean a trend, but my son wanted a PlayBook, so yesterday we went to Radio Shack to get a PlayBook. And Radio Shack had one 16 gig PlayBook in stock, and they were sold out of the rest of the PlayBooks they had. The salesman then said to me, oh, do you want a Zoom?I said, well we're really here of a PlayBook. He said, that's right, we're sold out of the Zooms. And my son said, do you have iPads 2. And the salesman said, were sold out of iPads 2 also. So that gives you an idea of how hot the tablet market is.

We then drove down the street to Best Buy, figuring they had PlayBooks. We walked in; there weren't any PlayBooks. The salesman said, we sold out -- we don't have any 64 or 32. We might be able to find you one 16. We then drove down the street, and we went to Office Depot, and we were able to get a 64 gig PlayBook. So that gives you an ideal that the PlayBook is doing well, assuming that's a trend, and the whole tablet market is pretty hot.

With RIM, we see more at Brightpoint than negatives. As it relates HTC,HTC continues to rollout cool products in all technologies, as well as a tablet and different cool products that are tying into gaming and media and all kinds of areas. They are hitting on all cylinders, and they're doing great. Our business with them in Asia, in India is growing significantly, as well as in Europe. We are focused -- back to the last question that we had before your question -- the North America market. We are going to be aggressive not only with one vendor or two vendors, but with all vendors in the North America market, and HTC is another one that we're going to get aggressive with.

Nokia and Windows? It will be interesting to see when the products comes out, there was a lull in the buzz, and now there seems to be more of a buzz from the field that we're hearing. And I'm optimistic by the fourth quarter Nokia will rollout a few Windows products, and we're ready to sell them to our customer base. We have a hundred thousand points of presence, and I'm sure Nokia will have a shot, if they're cool, priced right, have good form factors, and if the Windows software works well.

The Android market clearly is strong. There's so many Android applications for consumers, and there's lots of manufacturers making Android handsets and tweaking the software for whatever their use is. AndI think that's a growing marketplace as well.

And then your last question was related to Apple. Apple is definitely a growing market leader on the high-end smartphone area, and we -- they're someone that we -- we handle some units through some of our operator customers around the world, and we're always looking to expand our list of vendor partners.

MIKE WALKLEY: Okay, great. Thank you. Bob, just maybe provide some details on the BuyCell Wireless agreement that you announced? Can you help us just maybe quantify how large their channel is in terms of the Verizon independent channel, and what that opportunity can mean for you guys ?

J. MARK HOWELL, PRESIDENT, AMERICAS, BRIGHTPOINT, INC.: Yes, this is Mark. There's 18 members in the BuyCell Wireless group, and they're all exclusive Verizon dealers. They have about 2,600 points of sale amongst all 18 of them, and in terms of their specific volume, we can't speak to that.

MIKE WALKLEY: Okay, that helps to put it in -- And then one last question for Tony, and I'll pass it off. Tony, with ASP so strong and a lot of smartphone momentum and now going to tablets, how should we think about distribution ASPs over time? As you made a point, if you do more tablets, maybe it's a lower gross margin, but higher contribution dollars. Is that the way we should we think about your business? Maybe lower gross margin, but higher ASPs in terms of hitting the full year guidance that you reiterated?

TONY BOOR: I think that's always a tough one for me to predict. I think ASPs, right now, we expect are going to hold fairly well. Just with the continued, as you said, penetration of smartphones. And we saw it in Q1. A little abnormal to what we might have expected to have the increase in ASP that we saw, but that'sjust because of our high success I think with smartphones and the continued growth certainly in Asia Pacific.

I think tablets obviously, with those price points, are going to help from an ASP prospective as well. Hopeful they become a big piece of the mix, because that's incremental business for us. Now from a gross margin prospective, I think I have to refer to kind of my comment on that one. It is so dependent on mix, as you saw Q1. If we have a higher mix in Singapore, a higher mix in Middle East, that's going to put downward pressure. I think that the mix with Europe coming back up from its normal Q1 seasonality declined will have upward pressure on the margins. Touchstone is going to have downward pressure. That's a 25% kind of margin business today because of the spare parts.

So a lot of moving pieces. Unfortunately it's difficult for us to say where those will shake out over the next quarters, but we're still comfortable with the EPS guidance we gave. And for Q1, both units and EPS, wewere towards the high end of our internal range.

MIKE WALKLEY: Okay, thanks (inaudible -- multiple speakers) --

TONY BOOR: Mike, I think Mark was going to have some follow-up here.

J. MARK HOWELL: Yes. And just to tie back the comments regarding BCWG and what Bob had said earlier about our aggressive moves in the US. A specific part of our growth strategy is increasing our exposure and relationship with Verizon, and this is very significant indication of that. So we view it as a big inroad to building our relationship with Verizon, and also an important milestone as we grow our distribution business in the US.

MIKE WALKLEY: So is this an investment type business, so it might be a low corporate average distribution margins? Is that how we should be thinking about it, or would it be given higher, given it's more US base?

J. MARK HOWELL: I think it's within the margin ranges that our distribution businesses in the US are generally in. This isn't a business that we had to buy our way into. And the margin structure is very, very sustainable and meets our return requirements.

MIKE WALKLEY: Okay, great. Thank you very much for taking my questions, and good luck this year.

ROBERT LAIKIN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is with Brian Modoff with Deutsche Bank.

BRIAN MODOFF, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. Can you hear me okay?

ROBERT LAIKIN: Yes.

BRIAN MODOFF: Good. Bob, what do you think of overall demand trends? You've had Nokia guide down 10%. LG's numbers weren't so great. On the other hand -- and then RIM pre. And on the other you've had HTC, Apple. Motorola's numbers are okay. How do you feel about demand trends overall, and how do you feel for the inventory in the channel for the industry in general and for you guys? Obviously, you talked about the $75 million incremental, but how do you feel about it otherwise?

ROBERT LAIKIN: I think that Q2 will probably be flat to Q1, which I think is good given that Q1 was so strong. I think inventory is well within the normal three to four week range globally. I think that there's a lot new products coming out in Q2 and Q3 and Q4 that will stimulate the replacement cycle, and there's a lot of buzz. I think the tablet, the launch of PlayBook and the strength of the iPad and the new HTC tablet I think will get consumers in the stores to check out cool products. So I think there's going to be plenty of demand. We're see no slowdown in Asia, just like the world sees. Asia doesn't seem to be slowing down really in industry. And Europe just seems to be going along, continuing to grow good healthy business.

So I don't see any doom and gloom coming, and I think Nokia's issues are Nokia specific. I think LG had a lot of exposure to Verizon, and the 2 million iPhones that Verizon sold came out of someone's pocket. So it was the vendors like LG that were having a lot of business with Verizon. We still think for the year there's going to be a 10% growth rate for the industry. So our yearly growth rate hasn't changed. If Q2 is flat to Q1, that's still about a 10% growth rate year-over-year. It's still very consistent with what we estimated and what we're seeing and what we expect.

BRIAN MODOFF: Okay. Then Tony, can you talk about SG&A expense and how you see that tracking through the year? You guys are -- you've added a lot of facilities or are in the process of doing that. How do you see your SG&A expense tracking through the year in terms of -- do you see it as percent of revenue? Can you talk about it in that manner, please?

TONY BOOR: Unfortunately, Brian, we're not giving any specific guidance this year on SG&A. I can tell you the big components was the full quarter addition of Touchstone that you saw in Q1, and we broke that out for you. And so there was a $3 million increase in SG&A versus Q4 with the inclusion of Touchstone. We also had about $600,000 worth of negative FX impact SG&A in Q1 comparatively from a sequential basis, and I think about $1.2 million was the number negative impact on FX impact on SG&A versus Q1 of last year. And then lastly the thing I would tell you to note from an SG&A prospective is the Latin American operations that we contributed to in Comex and that joint venter? And that joint venture was about $1 million per quarter of SG&A per quarter, and we would have had that full quarter of SG&A in Q1.

BRIAN MODOFF: Okay, all right, thank you.

TONY BOOR: I think from a run-rate, we've already got the cost of the investment for the most part in the facilities. There will be some transitionary related cost, but those will be short-term.

BRIAN MODOFF: So you've included staffing -- you've already including staffing for all of the facilities that you've put into place?

TONY BOOR: You'll have incremental, theoretically, as we bring on business to fill the incremental capacity over the next couple of years, but the kind of baseline is already there, yes. And the duplicative cost as we work to transition those.

BRIAN MODOFF: All right. Thank you.

ROBERT LAIKIN: Thanks, Brian.

OPERATOR: We'll hear next with Scott Searle with Merriman Capital.

SCOTT SEARLE, ANALYST, MERRIMAN CURHAN FORD & CO.: Good morning. Tony, I'm not sure if I heard a number, but did you quantify the actual lower end inventory that you sold or cleared out in the first quarter to give us a normalized number might look like?

TONY BOOR: As far as the margin impact, Scott or --

SCOTT SEARLE: In terms of absolute dollars. I'm trying to figure out the impact in the first quarter, and you're talked about the market being flattish, but you guys continued to gain share. So are we looking at sequentially flattish revenue numbers, or down given the channel clearing exercise in the first quarter?

TONY BOOR: I would suggest that the channel clearing exercise was really only a margin issue, not a unit issue. We saw better than normal seasonal decline in EMEA, as I talked to earlier. So historically EMEA had been down substantially more Q1 than Q4 than this year, so we're only down 20%, which is still a big seasonal decline. But from a demand perspective, there was a good demand, at least for our products that we're selling in Q1. I don't know if that answers your question, or if you want me to provide some more granularity on that. I think the days inventory, maybe I could you something on that. I think we were as high at 40 days of inventory in EMEA in early in the quarter, and we ended at 28, I believe.

SCOTT SEARLE: So, Tony, am I to interpret that then, looking with ASP trends are going, that demand is strong and there's promotional activity going on in certain regions that we should expect revenues kind of at a minimum to be flattish sequentially?

TONY BOOR: We haven't given a revenue projection, but we are projecting that unit for the industry will be flat quarter-over-quarter. And we're seeing some, as Bob said, promotional activity. A lot of new launches. So I think there's going to be some buzz. I think the one dynamic that we have seen versus last year is you don't have nearly the supply constraints that we saw for several quarters last year, so it does appear that a lot of those have been caught up at least. Now, what's Japan going to do us? And we are hearing some rumblings that there could be other supply constraints created now because of the issues in Japan.

SCOTT SEARLE: And were there any rebates that did not occur from the OEMs in the first quarter that impacted the first quarter that impacted the gross margins, or no?

TONY BOOR: No, none of that like we had last Q3.

SCOTT SEARLE: Got you. And just to touch on AT&T/T-Mo. Could you remind us on where -- when your contracts expire with the existing relationships for T-Mo, both in core Brightpoint as well as the Touchstone wireless business?

J. MARK HOWELL: Yes, this is Mark, Scott. Those agreement goes out until 2013.

SCOTT SEARLE: Okay. So they've been re-signed through 2013 at this point and time?

J. MARK HOWELL: Yes.

SCOTT SEARLE: Okay. And lastly, Bob, you're getting more positive on tablets. You guys had approached the market relatively from a cautious standpoint, I think going back a couple of quarters ago, until you got better visibility, better comfort before you guys were investing. Clearly it sounds like the comfort level has increased at this point, whether talking about the PlayBook or the Zoom or otherwise. Is there a figure that you would put on the tablet opportunity for you, either in units or dollars, as you look at 2011? Thanks.

ROBERT LAIKIN: Thank, Scott. I would not put a dollar or unit number on tablets, but I will tell you that we have our highest level of comfort with tablets today than we've had in the history of tablets coming into the market. That doesn't mean we're going to go out and buy a $100 million worth of tablets and put them into our warehouses. We have a pretty good supply chain situation with the tablet manufacturers, where we can buy the right amount of tablets kind of just in time for the demand we're getting from the channel. So I don't expect we're going to have any surprises of too many tablets and then a big write-off coming. So I feel really good about the tablet market and our ability to be relevant to the manufacturers so that we get allocation and the best price, and all of those things come along with taking market share and buying more handsets. When you're the largest purchaser of handsets because you have the highest market share, you get a lot of benefits from the manufacturers on terms and conditions, pricing, availability, markets that you can sell to. And it's a big part of our strategy, and we are going to be aggressive.

SCOTT SEARLE: Bob, one last one, if I may. Sweden is online now. What are you seeing from an RFP activity standpoint, and when do you think you really start to fill that facility up with higher margin logistics business? Thanks.

ROBERT LAIKIN: We continue to see RFP demand globally. The RFP pipeline for logistics business in Europe is consistent with our global demand. I think that in Sweden we have a good core business. We don't have a facility that's sitting empty waiting for customers. We have a big facility that is doing business for customers, with a little excess capacity to go out and win some of these other businesses, whether they're in the network operator area, the MVNO, manufacturers, mass retailers. We offer a one-stop shop in Sweden now similar to what we offer in the US, and I think that the demand is very strong for it, and I think that we will win business over there.

TONY BOOR: Hey, Scott, just onething on the Sweden facility. The way we negotiated the lease on that is we do have expansion opportunity on that facility. And so to Bob's point, we didn't go into this with a tremendous amount of excess capacity. We did a good job negotiating that facility lease, so as we see opportunities, we can expand our footprint within that facility.

SCOTT SEARLE: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll hear next from Jim Suva with Citi.

JIM SUVA, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you, and congratulations to you and your team on good results. Bob and Tony, if I could ask a little more of a strategy question that you guys are going down. You have this investment going in Comex, the one in Latin America / Mexico area. My understanding is this a systems -- value-added reseller/distributor of systems, and basically don't do anything in wireless. SoI compare them more to like a Ingram Micro, Tech Data or Avnet that don't handle handsets. Can you help me understand, because I believe that this is actually a pretty different business model, or what's the strategy if you can help he understand that?

J. MARK HOWELL: Yes, this is Mark, Jim. There's really two pieces to it. What Brightpoint needed in Latin America was in-country infrastructure, and IMEX had a physical presence in 13 markets, and they were serving 44 different countries from that. And they also have tremendous experience --more than 20 years in their management team -- in distribution and logistics within Latin America. And then the third piece that they had was strong retail channels, and that being an expertise for them. And also, IMEXwas in the process of getting into the wireless business themselves. They all ready had working relationships with some legacy wireless OEMs.

And so there was two pieces to the transaction. One is IMEX acquired all of Brightpoint Latin America, and then we turned around and acquired 23% interest in that, so all of our wireless and IP assets are now part of IMEX. We've been approached for more than a year by our global partners and global suppliers to increase our presence in Latin America to give them additional alternatives, because the distribution -- wireless distribution in Latin America is highly concentrated. And sot this move was in response to their request, and we thought that this was the best route, lowest risk with tremendous upside, but limiting our down site to significantly increase our presence in Latin America quickly.

JIM SUVA: Okay, that makes sense. Thank you for the details. And then as a follow-up question, when we think about the Research in Motion, issues that they're facing, which is an important and growing customer for you, and we realize the footprint with them doesn't overlap in North America area and Latin America. But how come we shouldn't be concerned that this shouldn't flow to Europe and have the exact same thing, as they're selling similar products there?

ROBERT LAIKIN: I think, Jim, the trends we're seeing with RIM in Europe are going the opposite of the trends that RIM is seeing in the US. In Europe in certain markets -- and I think in UK RIM is the number one smartphone -- has the number one smartphone market share. They were the last to market, along with Apple, in Europe and in Asia, and the growth trajectory that we're seeing is very strong. The reception to their product is strong, and as they roll out new platforms in the second quarter and the third quarter, and as the PlayBook launches in Europe, I think they have a lot of wind at their back in Europe and in Asia. I don't see the issues that they have -- that they seem to be suffering from in North America in Europe or in Asia. April sell is all ready in a lot of markets in Asia and in Europe, so I don't think that the issue that I believe in the US, which is caused by Apple for RIM, they're all ready past that milestone for potential risk.

JIM SUVA: I understand that and got that. Great. Thank you very much, and congratulations to you and your team at Brightpoint.

ROBERT LAIKIN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Peter Misek with Jefferies & Company.

JASON NORTH, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hi, this is Jason North taking the call for Peter.

ROBERT LAIKIN: Hi, Jason.

JASON NORTH: Quick question here on ASPs. You talked about some pressure here in Europe during the quarter and some expected in Asia. Can you give any color as to where that's coming from? Is it coming from China OEMs [coming in and app the will] for smartphones, or is it overall midrange prices coming down? Any color would be appreciated.

TONY BOOR: Jason, I'm sorry, I think I was referring to ASPs at that point. I think that's more of a smartphone penetration issue. If anything for us, for our Brightpoint business, there was probably more downward pressure created by Europe's seasonal decline in volumes than anything, and that's because our ASP in Southeast Asia, which grew from Q4 to Q1, is our highest ASP in distribution. I don't remember the exact number -- I think they're a $270-plus ASP. Europe is at a $180, I think, ASP range. Though as Europe came down, Asia came up. Volume-wise quarter over quarter we saw an upward push on ASPs.

I will expect that we will see price pressures. Certainly that's one of the things we anticipated in Europe as we spoke to -- it was in Q4 -- some price concessions or changes coming on some of the older products in advance of launch of newer products. And so we always expect to see those kinds of things as products launch and new products come out. And I do think, as we've talked about in lots of the prior quarters, we expect to see some pressure as smartphones become more common, right? And so you have the mid tier and lower tier smartphones, so we would expect some downward pressure on ASPs, but we're also seeing a faster expansion of smartphones as a percent of the total, I think, that is offsetting any of that downward pressure.

JASON NORTH: That's very helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll hear next from Jeff -- Greg Burns from Sidoti & Company

GREG BURNS, ANALYST, SIDOTI & COMPANY: Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Honestly, it sounds like you're getting a little more aggressive on the distribution side of the business, goingafter the market share. I know historically you talked about not chasing the top line in deference to maintaining profitability. So I guess first, what were you seeing now? Like why is now the time to turn it up a notch as far as going after market share? And also, how do you balance that with maintaining a comfortable return on capital, and maybe what's your target as an acceptable return on capital on the distribution business?

ROBERT LAIKIN: Our gross profit in dollars per unit in Asia-Pacific, as an example, in Q1 was $7 per unit, and in Q1 of 2010 it was $6.30, so our gross dollars increased. So making a little less gross margin on a higher ASP is an okay strategy for us. I think that to be aggressive, and why we're getting more aggressive, there's a whole variety of reasons that I touched on earlier. It's market opportunity. It's competition getting weaker or changing strategy. It's new products. It's being more relevant and important to the major manufacturers, as the market we believe over the next three to five years will change from a controlled bundled market to more of a free market in a lot of areas around the world. And if the market changes, you need to be an important distributor to play. You can't just rely your whole business on providing services or programs with operators.

We still will be very aggressive in the services business and with programs with operators, but manufacturers are coming to us with products, and a good example are the tablet manufacturers that they sell two versions of them. One has a wireless data connection with it, and one is a Wi-Fi only. On the Wi-Fi only, the manufacturers would rather go through us than through a carrier who might not make it as important or put it out on as many store shelves, or have the most efficient channel to get the tablets to the markets. So as products are converging from desktops to low-end handsets, we decided to get more aggressive on the distribution side. And we think it's the right strategy, but we're certainly not slowing down the other sides of our business.

GREG BURNS: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session and today's conference call. We thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
whocel : Brightpoint Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | ismart : Smart Phones | itablcm : Tablet Computers | iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302011 : Portable/Notebook Computers | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | i8394 : Computer Services | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers
   NS
cappro : New Product Approvals | c151 : Earnings | e1113 : Inventories | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | fiji : Fiji | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110513e74t004h5
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Innodata Isogen Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,533 words
   PD
28 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Innodata Isogen First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Amy Agress. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
AMY AGRESS, .VP, GENERAL COUNSEL, INNODATA ISOGEN INC.: Thanks, Leah. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today.

Our speakers today are Jack Abuhoff, Chairman and CEO of Innodata Isogen and O'Neil Nalavadi, our CFO.

We'll hear from Jack and O'Neil and then take your questions.

First, let me qualify the forward-looking statements that are made during the call. These statements are subject to risks that include the primarily at will nature of the company's contracts with its customers and the ability of the customers to reduce, delay, or cancel projects including projects which the company regards as recurring.

Continuing revenue concentration in a limited number of clients, continuing reliance on project-based work, inability to replace projects that are completed, cancelled, or reduced, depressed market conditions, changes and external market factors, the ability and willingness of our customers and prospective customers to execute business plans that comprise requirements for digital content and professional services and knowledge processing.

Difficulty in integrating and deriving synergies from acquisitions, potential undiscovered viabilities of companies that we acquire, changes in our business or growth strategy, and the emergence of new or growing competitors. Our SEC filings also mention other risks. Actual results may differ significantly. Thank you. I will now turn the call over to Jack Abuhoff.

JACK ABUHOFF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, INNODATA ISOGEN INC.: Thank you, Amy.

Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today.

I'll begin with an overview of our first quarter 2011 results and then provide an overview of our three-year strategic plan. Revenue in the first quarter was $14.7 million which was $200,000 less than the fourth quarter. Nonetheless, we were able to improve pre-tax income by $400,000.

This improvement was the result of two factors. First, on a portfolio basis, the new business that we have been booking over the past several months is yielding higher margins than the existing project portfolio.

Therefore, as we finish lower margin projects and replace them with higher margin business, we see an overall margin uplift.

The second contributing factor is process and technology innovations that we're making. Next quarter, as a result of late 2010 improved bookings, we anticipate sequentially improved revenue probably in the range of $14.9 million to $15.2 million.

This quarter, we finalized our 2011 three-year strategy. We designed our strategy with the goal of making Innodata a $100 million revenue company within the next three years. We believe the level of change taking place in the way people consume and utilize digital information, in combination with our proven execution capability, global platform and strong customer franchise, means fertile entrepreneurial ground for us to pursue our financial goals and become a truly, globally respected services company.

I would like to share with you the key constituent objectives of our three-year strategy to that in this and subsequent earnings release calls, I can share with you our progress along the way.

Our strategy has four key financial objectives and three key market and strategic objectives. We'll take the financial objectives first.

Our first strategic objective is to increase bookings, the amount of business we win, by 20% this year over last year and another 20% year-over-year in each of 2012 and 2013.

To accomplish this, late last year, we recruited Jim Lewis to head our sales team. Jim is the former CEO of Berlitz International Services business so he understands content services, global delivery, and technology.

After Berlitz, Jim worked for five years as a coach to high-performing services sales teams, training approximately 1,000 sales executives, many from leading services companies.

In the past few months, Jim has seeded our sales team with three of the highest performers he encountered during his years as a sales coach and he's got some other recruits in process.

Jim and his team will be implementing account management practices that will enable us to work progressively, more closely, and more strategically with our clients.

Now, when I speak of bookings, it is important to note that bookings are not a formal GAAP accounting measure. Moreover, because most of our customer contracts don't have fixed dollar committed spends, we estimate each contract's value.

Therefore, we use bookings as a performance indicator rather than a reporting metric. With that as a caveat, I'm encouraged by our first quarter bookings which were 40% higher than our first quarter bookings last year.

Our second financial objective is to achieve labor margin on new bookings that is 12 to 14 percentage points higher than the overall labor margin we had in 2010. Our market is competitive, so we can't just raise prices to accomplish this. Instead, we have to do three things.

First, we need to automate to a greater extent the work that we do. Second, we need to increase the proportion of higher value strategic services we provide which we're doing by integrating content technology services with our core content KPO services and by continuing to grow our consulting services group who help clients with operations and product strategy.

Third, we need to launch new higher margin services. And I'll come back to this last one in a couple of minutes.

Now, in terms of first-quarter progress towards this objective, I'm encouraged to report that margins on our first-quarter bookings are, indeed, anticipated to be 11 to 13 percentage points higher than the overall labor margin we had in 2010, to reappear to have hit our targets in Q1, both in terms of bookings acceleration and raising the labor margin of bookings.

Our third financial objective is to improve labor margins on our existing portfolio of recurring revenue. We intend to do this by investing in further process and technology driven improvements.

And our fourth financial objective is to reduce our current overhead spend by approximately $1 million per year.

The first two of these three financial objectives are the most important. And here's why. Growing our core business bookings by 20% year-over-year, our first financial objective, would translate to a secular revenue growth of approximately 40% over the next three years on our core business.

If we can meet our second financial objective, which is the 12% to 14% higher labor margin, then on these new bookings, we have the growth revenue essentially throwing off about 60% on a marginal basis to the bottom line. And net, of course, of cost increase and some increase in sales spend.

A couple of important points to note, first, foreign exchange fluctuations, and wage inflation in India and in the Philippines will likely be persistent headwinds for the next couple of years, while my numbers are assuming constant currency.

And second, our growth during this period will likely to continue to be non-sequential quarter-to-quarter because of the nature of our business.

So, that covers our four key financial objectives. I'll now turn to our three strategic and market objectives.

The first market objective is to launch new productized service offerings within our existing markets. We're using the term productized service offerings here to distinguish these new kinds of service offerings from our existing service offerings in the following way.

Our existing service offerings tend to be very highly customized to each client. When we finish a highly customized project for a client, there's a lot of learning and even some technology that is not reusable.

Productized of service offerings, on the other hand, will be designed to meet the generic market need as opposed to unique customer need. This greater level of technology and process reuse will support our growth and profitability objectives.

We expect that these new productized service offerings will have a shared core technology components putting to good work the investments we've been making in our constant technology's area.

We've got a few new productized of service offerings in the works that we're excited about, one of which is being showcased as a product concept demo at the Mark Logic User Conference taking place this week in San Francisco.

The second market objective is to launch new information analysis businesses in new markets. Now, when I use the term information analysis, I'm referring to the process of taking raw, unstructured information and organizing the information to be useful for a particular business purpose.

As we've progressed over the years from providing digitization services to providing XML services, to providing information analysis services with doctors, lawyers, and other professionals, we've developed a competency that we think we can take outside the publishing and information sectors.

Over the next three years, expect to see us doing just that. This quarter, for example, we closed a new contract for performing data analysis services to one of the top four global accounting organizations.

In addition this quarter, we started a division called Innodata Advanced Data Solutions or IADS for short which will perform data analysis work for a number of industries outside the publishing sector where the kind of analysis we do can help reduce risk or otherwise help manage key business processes.

Also this quarter, our IADS division is launching a new brand which we are calling Synodex. Synodex will perform a range of data analysis services principally in the medical field to assist insurance company -- insurance companies, legal practices, healthcare providers, and independent medical examiners.

Now, to drive this business, we brought on board a new executive, Sam Jensen who will be CEO of Synodex. Sam's a proven entrepreneur with a 25-year career spanning sales and marketing as well as technology.

He has recent notable success which he started the Company called Cofunds about ten years ago with an initial $15 million investment. Cofunds is now the UK's largest independent investment platform with $45 billion in assets under management, $90 million in revenue, and $12 million in operating profit.

We're excited to have Sam on the Innodata team. And Sam is excited to have the opportunity to leverage Innodata's people, capabilities, and strengths to build a platform-based business providing medical information analysis.

Our third market and strategic objective is internally focused. We're going to step up our efforts promoting a stronger, more unified company culture. Well, it sounds like a clichÃ© it is nonetheless true that our 5,000 global employees are our most important asset.

A progressively stronger, more unified company culture will be the backbone that supports our strategy. So, that's our plan in a nutshell. We're very excited about it. There's a focused, hard working, talented team that has set as its ambition to get to $100 million over the next three years, while becoming a truly, globally respected business services company.

In order to promote retention of this team and their alignment with the interests of our shareholders, the board has made or will be making stock option grants this year to a number of people who will be instrumental in driving the plan, including a number of people that we've hired over the past several quarters who are critical to our plan.

Because option grants have a dilutive effect to shareholders, we have, over the last five years, used this compensation vehicle very sparingly. In fact, seven of our new senior executives and three of our new corporate directors have never received stock options. And the last time we made a wide-ranging grant was in 2005.

In terms of share buybacks, once our trading window opens, we intend to resume buying back shares. On the investor relations front, a couple of things, O'Neil and I are going to be stepping up outreach to some of our existing as well as prospective institutional investors over the remainder to Q2.

In terms of date-to-date interface, Raj Jain, our finance director, will be available to investors who have specific questions taking over for Corey Luskin whom we wish well in his future endeavors. I will now turn the call over to O'Neil who will provide additional insight into the Q1 financial results. After that, we'll take your questions and then I'll wrap up with final comments. O'Neil?

O'NEIL NALAVADI, SVP, CFO, INNODATA ISOGEN INC.: Thanks, Jack. Good morning, everyone. Again, thank you for joining us today to review our first quarter of 2011 financial results. Jack just shared with you the operational insights, how are business is evolving, and our strategy. I will share my insight on this quarter's financial performance and then review the key line items of the financial statements.

Though our first quarter of 2011 revenue was slightly lower than in the previous quarter, our operating performance was significantly better. Our performance has improved because of our dual focus on enhancing the quality of revenues and productivity which we set out to achieve after confronting a challenging 2010 when we had to deal with some large engagements being scaled down by a couple of customers.

Considering that one of these customers has scaled down from being the top customer, to just one of the top five customers within less than 12 months underscores how we managed to enhance our performance to offset the loss and establish a new foundation for growth. Driven by the booking acceleration within the past couple of quarters, we feel reasonably confident of achieving revenue growth in the next quarter.

Let me now review the operating performance. As in the past, in reviewing our financial statements, I will focus on the sequential changes from the last quarter as it provides a more meaningful analysis on the run rate of our business.

Should you have any questions of the year-over-year results, I'll be happy to answer them during the Q&A session. Now, I'll review the latest line items in the financial statements. Revenue in Q1 was $14.7 million compared to $14.9 million in the last quarter, a decline of $200,000. The revenue has declined mainly because of completion of a few one time projects and the termination of an engagement which we are expected and mentioned in our last call.

These project completions reduced revenues by $800,000 and were offset by net growth in recurring business of $600,000. The top three clients contributed 42% of revenues this quarter compared to 40% in the previous quarter, an increase of 200 basis points.

Moving over to gross margins, it increased by 500 basis points to 27% of revenues in the current quarter from 22% in the previous quarter. In dollar terms, gross margin was $4 million this quarter compared to $3.3 million in the last quarter, an increase of $800,000.

Approximately 50% or $400,000 of the growth in gross margins was attributable to our dual focus on improving the quality of revenues and productivity through process and technology innovation.

The balance was due to optimizing their cost structure in technology and facilities. Now, let us drill down to selling and administrative expenses. SG&A expenses were $4.1 million this quarter compared to $3.7 million in the previous quarter. The sequential increase in expenses was primarily due a one time benefit we had in the last quarter from a recovery of $400,000 from a previously fully reserved account receivable.

In the current quarter, we accrued for severance cost of about $300,000, which was offset partially by an additional recording of $250,000 from a previously fully reserved account receivable and the balance $50,000 from lower expenses. The severance cost of $300,000 is expected to result in cost savings of $600,000 per annum.

Moving down to pre-tax earnings, we made a pre-tax profit of $100,000 in the current quarter, compared to a pre-tax loss of $350,000 in the last quarter. This was primarily due to an increase in gross margins of $800,000 which was offset by higher SG&A expenses of $400,000.

Let me now review our tax provisions. In the current quarter, our tax expense was $70,000 versus a tax benefit of $1.4 million in the previous quarter. As shared with you in the last call, the tax benefit in the last quarter was primarily due to a deferred tax benefit for the US entity, which was partially offset by tax provisions in our foreign subsidiaries.

Looking ahead, on a return to 10% pre-tax profitability, we would expect our effective tax rate to be in the range of approximately 22% to 25% compared to 28% to 30% earlier. Getting down the net earnings, our net profits for the quarter was a breakeven compared to $1.2 million or $0.05 per diluted share in the previous quarter.

Now, let me review our cash flows and the balance sheet. We generated cash from operations of $1.2 million in the current quarter compared to $700,000 in the previous quarter. The cash generated from operations increased mainly on account of an increase in pre-tax earnings of $450,000.

Now, looking at our liquidity position, we ended the quarter with $28.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments in term deposits with banks compared to $28 million at the end of last quarter.

We anticipate that these cash balances may trend down this year as we continue to undertake share purchases under our previously announced buyback plan and meet our operating needs and incur capital expenditures. To build delivery capabilities in our new service offerings, we intend to establish a new delivery center in India and invest about $2 million over the next six to eight months.

In addition to cash and bank balances and investments of $28.6 million, our liquidity sources include an unutilized line of credit amounting to $7 million. We believe that our existing cash balances together with operating cash flows and funds available under our credit lines would provide sufficient sources of liquidity to satisfy our financial requirements for the next 12 months.

Now, let me review our capital expenditures and changes in account receivables. We incurred capital expenditures of approximately $500,000 in the current quarter compared to $400,000 in the previous quarter. These expenditures were primarily incurred in our global production and delivery centers.

As mentioned earlier, we expect to invest about $2 million to establish a new delivery center in India this year, in addition to routine capital expenditures and other locations. The new delivery center will accommodate approximately 750 employees.

We ended the quarter with account receivables of $8 million compared to $8.4 million at the end of last quarter. In terms of efficiency, our days sales outstanding or DSO decreased to 52 days in Q1 2011, from 61 days in the last quarter. Working capital at the end of the quarter was $25.5 million compared to $26 million at commencement. The decline was primarily on account of a reduction in account receivable balances of $400,000.

Now, let me share some other relevant financial highlights. First is the share buyback program, this quarter the company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock under the previously announced buyback plan. So, at the end of Q1 2011, the total common stock repurchased remains at 264,000 shares at a total cost of about $800,000 and approximately $1.3 million remains available for repurchase under the buyback plan.

Now, let me review the tax NOLs. We have approximately $9.5 million of federal tax NOL carry forwards in the US, which we anticipate will give us a cash tax shield in the future years. Finally, let me review the forex hedging program. As of the end of Q1, we had foreign currency forward contracts with approximately $26 million. These contracts were -- are taken to mitigate foreign currency risks associated with future local currency expenses in our global production centers in Asia.

On these forward contracts, we have approximately $1.1 million of unrealized gains based on conversion rates as of March 31, 2011. As these are qualified hedging contracts, we do not recognize gains based on mark-to-market, instead gains are recognized in the income statement as and when the contracts mature. Now, let's open the line for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Take our first question from Tim Clarkson with Van Clemens Capital.

TIM CLARKSON, ANALYST, VAN CLEMENS: Hi, guys. Could you just comment a little bit more, specifically about your sales and marketing effort. I know you brought in a new guy. Comment a little bit about what he is doing differently. And how many people -- how many salesmen do you have now versus what you had say a year ago? And have you got rid of some of the older salesman that weren't producing or how is that -- how is that playing out?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : Hi, Tim. Sure, would be happy to. And I'll put what we're doing in sales in the context to what we're doing in the rest of the business. You know, we've talked a lot about how we're trying to, you know, migrate progressively more strategic services.

We're using some of our new content consulting capabilities and content technology capabilities to drive that strategy. And that enabling us to expand margins and we see some of the early indicators of that success in the revenues as well as in the bookings that we're doing now.

Now, as we have that more expanded set of capabilities, we need to be having a different -- more strategic conversation with our clients. And that's really what Jim is driving with the changes that he's making in terms of strategic account strategy, driving that a lot more formally and a lot more progressively. And helping us become much less transactional at the edge of the wedge.

TIM CLARKSON: And how may -- how many -- is it the same amount of salesmen? Have you -- have you just changed out your salesmen, somewhat?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : Yes. He's made a number of changes, brought in some new people who he is -- swapped out some of the low performers with. And I think we're going to also kick-up head count a little bit. But it's not going to be a numbers gain, it's going to be a quality gain.

TIM CLARKSON: Okay. All right, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe First with the First Associates.

JOE FIRST, ANALYST, FIRST ASSOCIATES INVESTMENTS: Good morning, gentlemen. First, I want to commend you for being able to at list keep your head above water, because evidently, you've been losing a lot of accounts and a lot of -- a lot of -- one project type because this has ended, but you've got new business to at least sort of keep your head above water, so congratulations on that.

And secondly, one thing I want to clarify, because I'm not sure I understood it quite -- quite. When you're talking about getting margins to 11% to 13% better than the margins and the average margin 2010 was that percentage points better or percent better? Obviously, there is a big difference.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : That would be -- Neil, correct me if I'm wrong, percentage points better.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : Yes.

JOE FIRST: Okay, okay, that's what I've --

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : Which is -- which is the better of the two alternatives (inaudible - multiple speakers).

JOE FIRST: Oh, yes, so a lot better. Okay, thank you for that. And -- and -- where do you stand on -- as far as keep losing business and having these projects, your largest customer, so apparently, has really cut down a lot of the - is this about overhead you think, and maybe the increased business you get now can be more accretive to sales, because I mean, your projections for the next quarter are just slightly higher than this quarter. And I'm sure you would like to do, I mean, obviously, your goals are a lot better than that if you want to get to a $100 million company in three years.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : Absolutely, and, you know, I hate to inspire any kind of bad luck by calling a bottom and saying that we feel everything, you know, is -- that we've got is nailed down. I think it's helpful to understand the disruptions that we've seen in the context of the overall global economy, so, you know, we -- as you know, serve medical publishers, we serve legal publishers, we serve general information providers, financial information providers, a whole host of things.

If you take any one of those sectors, law, for example, you know, over the past couple of years, there's been a great amount of pressure put on the law firm business model. And there have been all sorts of change in terms of consolidation and law firms going out of business and such.

So you can imagine the pressure that that would place on legal information providers, most of whom are our clients. That trickle-down, you know, affects their ideas and their willingness to spend more money on new products and that affects us.

So it's that environment and that trickle-down effect that unfortunately, we've -- we've -- we have felt quite significantly over, you know, over 2010. And thank you for your compliment. We've -- we've certainly tried to work very progressively, very diligently with a great deal of perseverance in terms of not letting that get us down. And we've brought in some new accounts that we're very proud of. We think we'll be able to develop them over the next couple of years significantly. And that'll help us drive to our $100 million goal.

JOE FIRST: And one other question. You haven't mentioned anything about Apple, the relationship with Apple that you got. Have you seen any better picture on that or what -- where that might lead?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : Well, you know, I think that's clearly one of the relationships that we're very excited about. As, I think anybody would be having a, you know, strategic partnering relationship with a company like that. So, I've got ambitions for the development of that over the next few years and intend to pay a lot of close attention to it.

JOE FIRST: Have you seen any concrete progress on the first quarter so far in this quarter?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : You know, we're not going to -- we're not going to report on a customer level revenue or specific progress, because I don't think the customers want that. You know, as you could appreciate a lot of the customers that we deal with, have us under NDAs, but in addition to that, they want to manage their own PR.

And I respect that. So I'm going to -- I'm going to keep my remarks to saying that we're very excited about it. We think it will be a very important relationship for us and we'll pay a lot of very close attention to it.

JOE FIRST: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Benj Gallander with Contra the Heard.

BENJ GALLANDER, ANALYST, CONTRA THE HEARD: Hi. Yes, I really do appreciate also how you guys managed to keep your head above water. Just thinking though, I mean, I know you have the goal of a $100 million in revenues, but I'm wondering if it might not be better to just look at some sort of strategic alternative in terms of perhaps, selling the company because with the size of the company now, you know, it's difficult to have a wonderful bottom line. So are you thinking at all of possibly putting the company up for sale? And is anybody perhaps kicking the tires at all?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: : Thank you for your question. I think that the board of directors in executing is fiduciary duty will always look at alternatives that are presented and strategic options that are presented to the company. That said, the company is not for sale nor do we intend for it to be for sale.

BENJ GALLANDER: Okay. But -- okay. And so -- but I would think from time to time people do come in with a company like this and take a look. And you said, then you'll just look for what's in the best interest of shareholders.

JACK ABUHOFF: Absolutely. We'll always do that. And, you know, if and when we have those kinds of indications of interest, we will look very carefully at them with the shareholders' interests clearly in the forefront of our minds.

BENJ GALLANDER: Thank you very much.

JACK ABUHOFF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

We'll hear our next question from [Charlie Pine] with Van Clemens.

CHARLIE PINE, ANALYST, VAN CLEMENS: Good morning, Jack.

JACK ABUHOFF: Hi, Charlie. Good morning.

CHARLIE PINE: I wanted just to follow-up on one of, well, two questions, but I would like to follow-up a little bit more on the Apple relationship. I know apparently you can't get too specific about it, but can you tell us if -- are you beginning to recognize any revenues at this point with -- you know, from that relationship? Have you actually started to see any dollars from that?

JACK ABUHOFF: Yes, we have.

CHARLIE PINE: And could you also touch on a little bit more about what's been going in the e-book space with some of the other providers and platform companies that you've been working with?

JACK ABUHOFF: Sure. You know, it's a rapidly changing space with lots of different opportunities. You know, the work that we're doing in the e-book space has been, you know, mostly of a particular variety related to large platform providers, for example.

But we're, you know, we're starting to branch off from that and do new things. For example, I referred to the product concept demo that we're doing at the Mark Logic conference this week.

And, you know, what that relates to is, you know, basically some middleware that we're building to help publishers take their existing content stores, import them to, you know, mobile devices and platform, you know, iPad and Android most specifically.

You know, it's really a mega trend. It's a big shift in the way information is going to be distributed and consumed and one that we think we can, you know, benefit from in lots of different ways. The work that we're doing with the, you know, the e-book stores is just one manifestation of it.

CHARLIE PINE: Well, I've been reading a lot recently about the very large increase in the self-publishing arena for e-books. And there was, as a matter of fact, a huge article in the journal a few days ago about just how much self-publishing has taken up percentage-wise in the amount of books that are offered on the Kindle.

I think the figure was something like, you know, 30% of the top 50 titles now are self-published. I would imagine that those are the sort of things that bode pretty well for you down the road with your relationship with Apple.

JACK ABUHOFF: You know, I think, you know, you're pointing to an important element of what's changing and trending. And it's not similar to the changes that took place in music publishing.

I know Apple hopes that the iBookstore will do for books what the App Store did for mobile and iTunes did for music, you know. So they are predicting a proliferation of books and to make book publishing, you know, much easier for people to do.

You know, importantly, you know, we haven't committed to going into the retail side of that business, but it's something that we're interested in and we've been looking at. Some of the technology that we've built specifically for the Apple program does enable us to accept a retail-like order for e-book and related services. And we tend to do some further development on that platform. So it's certainly an option for us that we'll continue to explore.

CHARLIE PINE: Oh, well, that sounds very exciting. Let me follow-up with just two other quick things. First of all, in past calls recently you talked that -- about that you had been actively engaged in tire kicking on areas in the acquisition front. Can you update us on where things stand with any of that?

JACK ABUHOFF: Well, sure. I guess, you know, a few things going on. The first is we're continuing to, you know, evaluate acquisitions. We've got a couple of things, you know, in active evaluation right now.

We've been evaluating things that are small and things that are large and things that are tuck-in and things that are transformative. It really runs, you know, a full, you know, range of opportunities there.

You know, we're being selective. I know it's trite to say some of the best deals are the ones you don't do. And I know that, you know, we get paid to do deals not to not do deals, but we are being selective.

And, you know, we've had stuff on a lot of things that we just don't think would be very good for our shareholders. We're doing some things that, you know, aren't quite acquisitions, but that we think will provide a much, you know, lower risk, you know, higher return opportunity for shareholders.

So, you know, I refer to the launch this quarter of our IADS division and kind of it tuck in, you know, quasi-acquisition of the business called Synodex, which we've very excited about and will create new opportunities. I think the total return we get on that over time is going to exceed that which we can get on most -- any of the acquisitions that we've looked at.

So I hope that answers the question.

CHARLIE PINE: Back up for just a moment. Can you expand a little bit more on this new division Synodex? And you talk about it almost like it's a tuck-in acquisition. Was it -- is it -- was it an acquisition or is it just a, you know, internally organically created entity?

JACK ABUHOFF: It's a little bit of both. What we're doing is, you know, it's something that we've been working on now for six or seven months with Sam -- I referred to Sam Jensen in my prepared remarks -- you know, working with him, identifying the business opportunities going to talk to customers and seeing, you know, what it is that we can do for them in formulating a plan of action.

And we closed that opportunity now with Sam this quarter. Sam is going to be an equity participant in the Synodex company. The Synodex company, that said, is going to be controlled, you know, majority controlled by us.

And it's something that we're really excited about because it truly leverages the execution capabilities that we've got while, you know, Sam's able to bring some entrepreneurial energy and vision to the picture, and so with very talented salespeople and some domain specialist to understand how to work with some of the new business or new market sectors that we're going to be tapping into there. So it's, I think, a really good thing for our business.

CHARLIE PINE: Has Synodex officially been launched now? Is that what you're telling us or is it still in the pre-launch stage?

JACK ABUHOFF: It's still in the soft launch stage. So, you know, we're putting things in place now, most importantly customers and, you know, some of the artifacts of launch, you know, websites and marketing collateral things. That's in development, but, you know, I'm really encouraged by, you know, Sam knows where the money is, he's running after customers and we're formulating service offering and designing services and technology to support it. And I think those are the fundamentals of business.

CHARLIE PINE: Okay. My last thing -- and I'll stop monopolizing this -- has to do with the buyback program. I heard Neil said that there was no stock bought back during the last quarter. I was curious as to why that is. And the follow-up also is do you have any plans to increase the dollar value on your stock buyback program?

JACK ABUHOFF: Sure. Yes, we were really frustrated by that for, you know, in the quarter for, you know, one reason or another. The closed window restrictions were, you know, affecting us throughout the quarter.

And as you know, there are a number of different reasons why that would be the case. So, you know, unfortunately, as a result of the closed window, we were not able to be in the market, you know, making market buybacks.

That said, we intend to get right back into the market and to proceed with buybacks. You know, we think that repurchasing our shares, you know, particularly when we perceive that our price is undervalued or depressed as we do now, you know, in light of the, you know, our three-year strategy, which when we pro forma, you know, we see very strong intrinsic value in. You know, buying back shares is aggressively, you know, in light of that, makes a lot of sense.

CHARLIE PINE: So do you anticipate increasing the ceiling on buyback program then?

JACK ABUHOFF: Well, I think what we're going to do first is use up the buyback that -- authorization that we've got. You know, we -- if you look at the buybacks that we've done in the programs we've authorized recently when we make -- when we authorize, we try to work as aggressively as we can to effectuate that program.

We're not using it as a signal or manipulative device. We authorize it and then we move forward with it. Again, you know, the buyback mechanism has frustrations associated with it. There are times when, because of the close window restrictions, we, you know, we can't be in the market. We have that in first quarter and then there are other issues in terms of the amount of stock and the, you know, the purchase price, the timing, the volume restrictions that are placed on it.

So, you know, in the future, you know, I think that we're going to, you know, first burn through the authorization that we've got. And then we would, you know, evaluate the increase authorization again consistent with our perspective that buying back aggressively right now makes a lot of sense.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

We'll hear next from Perry Highland with Van Clemens.

PERRY HIGHLAND, ANALYST, VAN CLEMENS: Hey, good morning, Jack.

JACK ABUHOFF: Hi, Perry. Good morning.

PERRY HIGHLAND: And are there any comments (inaudible) the government turning off its (inaudible)?

JACK ABUHOFF: You know, I'm going to answer that question the same way I answered the Apple one. We're not going to do customer level updates. You know, two really good reasons there, one is the customers think that we're going to do that and they're not controlling their own PR. They're not going to be happy.

Second is, you know, when we're, you know, in, you know, kind of in the process of things, there's just no good reason to be communicating to competitors, you know, where we are and what we're doing. So, you know, I'm not going to provide that level of update.

What I will say, though, is the relationship's strong. We've done really good work. It's been praised, recognized. And, you know, we're really happy with it and we think that it's a relationship that we can continue to develop and cultivate and benefit from.

PERRY HIGHLAND: Okay. That's my only question. Thank you.

JACK ABUHOFF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We do have a follow-up question from Joe First with First Associates.

JOE FIRST: What percent of your businesses are recurring business now?

JACK ABUHOFF: Joe, hi. It's about 76% of this quarter.

JOE FIRST: You have 76%?

JACK ABUHOFF: Yes.

JOE FIRST: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: There are no additional questions at this time. I will now turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.

JACK ABUHOFF: Operator, thank you very much. I guess to recap a bit, we gain some ground on the pre tax income side in the first quarter as a result of our strategy to the replacing relatively lower margin business with higher margin business as well as process and technology innovation that we put in place. Next quarter we're expecting revenues to be in the range of [$14.9 million] to $15.2 million. Our 2011 three-year strategy has seven key objectives associated with it. I'll quickly recap those now.

First is 20% year over year bookings acceleration. Second is 12% to 14% labor margin expansion over 2010 levels on new bookings accomplished by selling more strategic services. Third is an improvement on labor margins and existing business using technology and process improvements. Fourth is reduction in annual overhead costs by about a million a year. Next is launching new product test offerings that promotes scalability, margin improvement and market differentiation. And then, you know, lastly, launching new information analysis businesses that serve markets that are new markets for us.

Toward this end, this quarter, we're enhancing the formation of our Innodata advanced data solutions segment as well the launch of Synodex, a new company that will perform a range of information analysis services principally related to digital information in the medical field.

So we here at Innodata look forward to sharing with you our progress on the strategic objectives as we move into 2011. Our goal is an aggressive one. Our goal is to become $100 million company over the next three years and to develop into a truly globally respected business services company which can create significant shareholder value. So thanks, everybody, for joining us today. We look forward to being with you next time.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.

A recording of today's call will be made available for replay starting today, April 28 at 1 PM central standard time. The replay will be made available until May 28. You may access the recording by dialing 1-888-203-1112. The access code, 616-96-30. That will conclude today's presentation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
innoda : Innodata Isogen Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | i8395466 : Data Processing Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
cshbuy : Share Buybacks | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110513e74s007sn
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Socket Mobile Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,694 words
   PD
26 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Greetings and welcome to the Socket Mobile First Quarter 2011 Management Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS.) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Jim Byers of MKR Group. Thank you, Mr. Byers. You may begin.

JIM BYERS, INVESTOR RELATIONS, MKR GROUP, INC.: Thank you, operator. Good afternoon and welcome to Socket's First Quarter Management Conference Call to review financial results for its 2011 first quarter. On the call today from Socket Mobile are Kevin Mills, President and CEO; and Dave Dunlap, CFO.

Socket Mobile distributed its earnings release over the wire service at the close of the market today. The release has also been posted on Socket's website at www.socketmobile.com. In addition, a replay of today's call will be available at vcall.com shortly after the call's completion and a transcript of this call will be posted on the Socket website within a few days. We've also posted replay numbers in today's press release for those wishing to replay this call by phone. The phone replays will be available for one week.

Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding mobile computer, data collection and OEM products, including details on timing, distribution, and market acceptance of products, and statements predicting trends, sales and market conditions, and opportunities in the markets in which Socket sells its products.

Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the risk that manufacture of Socket's products may be delayed or not rolled out as predicted due to technological, market or financial factors, including the availability of product components and necessary working capital; the risk that market acceptance and sales opportunities may not happen as anticipated; the risk that Socket's application partners and current distribution channels may choose not to distribute the products or may not be successful in doing so; the risk that acceptance of the company's products in vertical application markets may not happen as anticipated; and other risks described in Socket's most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Socket does not undertake any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.

Now with that said, I would now like to turn the call on over to Socket's President and CEO, Kevin Mills.

KEVIN MILLS, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SOCKET MOBILE, INC.: Thanks, Jim, and thank you for joining us today.

In today's call, we'll begin with a short review of Q1 and then outline the business opportunity we see for the rest of 2011.

On a very positive note, we generated first-quarter revenue of $4 million, a 54% sequential increase over the $2.6 million we reported in the preceding quarter. This solid increase was driven by significant sales increases in both our cordless scanning and handheld computing products. At the same time, we further reduced our expenses during the quarter which enabled us to move within $300,000 of positive EBITDA. So we achieved both increased sales and bottom-line improvement during the quarter -- a very positive step in the right direction.

I'll begin with a review of our current handheld computing business and then provide a going-forward outlook.

Our handheld computing-related sales grew to $2.1 million in the first quarter, a 40% sequential increase over the preceding quarter. This is a significant increase, but it doesn't tell us much about the business since the revenue number was primarily driven by improved supply. You may remember we reported significant back orders entering Q1 due to the lack of LCD screens. However, what is much more significant in Q1 are the new bookings we received for the SoMo totaling $2.7 million. With these bookings, we enter Q2 with an even larger backlog than we entered Q1. The demand for the SoMo continues to be very strong, even though the related LCD supply problems have made it challenging to meet demand.

As a result, in Q1, we shipped a total of 2,945 SoMos, which was well below the demand level. The LCD supply situation continues to improve and we have already received over 1,000 units this quarter with an additional 3,000 units-plus expected during the quarter. While this will not allow us to completely clear our backlog, it will ensure that our SoMo revenue will grow in Q2 and we expect to enter the second half of the year with a manageable backlog.

So what is driving this demand for our SoMo handhelds? It's a combination of several factors. Certainly the improving economy is helping and we are definitely seeing deals that went dormant over the past two years come back and lead us to re-engage with customers -- always a good and positive event. We are also seeing a positive impact resulting from HP's exit from the classic PDA market. While HP is not fully out of the market -- nor do we expect to see them completely out for another quarter or two, particularly in the US -- we are seeing the impact of their departure in markets like Japan, where they have already exited. Our bookings in Japan represented over 15% of our total quarterly SoMo bookings in Q1, which is extremely strong, especially since historical sales for SoMo units out of Japan were almost nonexistent. As we mentioned in our last call, we strategically targeted Japan as an area of SoMo growth and traveled to Japan late last year and met face-to-face with key HP resellers. Our distribution partner there has a great working relationship with HP. We are seeing the positive impact of these efforts in a solid increase in sales, and we hope Japan will be representative of the rest of the markets worldwide when it comes to the classic PDA. We will be better able to test this hypothesis with improved supply of SoMos. To date, we haven't made a strong push to provide samples and capture the HP business in other markets, but we are beginning to reach out via the web to increase awareness of those using the HP device that the SoMo is 100% compatible and will enable them to use their existing software, thus leveraging their software investments.

Beginning this quarter, with an improved LCD supply situation, we will be able to reach out to those potential customers directly to further benefit from the HP departure. Our business from Epocal and other regular customers remains strong and we are seeing a definite increase in this business as well.

So while demand for our SoMo remains strong in Q2, we still remain limited by supply. We expect to make a significant dent in our backlog during Q2 and enter the second half of the year with a manageable backlog and an improved supply situation. We expect further growth in the second half of 2011, assuming a reasonable economy and continued pick-up from the HP-related business.

Turning to our cordless scanning business. Sales of our cordless barcode scanning products were up significantly and reached $1.2 million in Q1, which includes sales of both our cordless hand scanners and cordless ring scanners. This represents a 265% increase over the preceding quarter and reflects stronger demand for cordless scanners connected to mobile phones and tablet computers.

Our cordless hand scanner business continues to be driven by companies collecting data using a combination of mobile phones, tablets, notebooks and desktops, while reading barcodes. Again, our customers require commercial-grade barcode scanning capabilities and (inaudible) they're generally running business-critical functions with a software application running on their computing device. We are seeing very strong interest from both Apple and Android customers from many different markets. We continue to see pharmaceutical companies like Medtronic and Smith & Nephew using the mobile phone/ cordless scanner combination to track items, perform audits and generally improve information flow. We are also seeing a variety of opportunities for application in numerous additional markets. For example, in the hospitality arena, we were recently informed that the PGA will be using a combination of an Apple iPad and our CHS barcode scanners to process tickets at upcoming events. We also have Doggie Day Care Centers logging pets in and out using the cordless barcode scanner and an Apple iPad.

The good news is the market is just beginning in many of these segments and we are seeing an increasing number of companies interested in our solutions. As it turns out, many of these companies are looking for a more robust and dependable solution beyond what is enabled by a simple keyboard-type interface. To address this demand and to assist the developer community, we've launched a comprehensive Software Developer's Kit, or SDK. This SDK will not only allow developers and customers to build robust barcode scanning solutions, but it will also enable them to ensure the integrity of the information they collect. Our current SDK fully supports Android, Blackberry, Windows Mobile and Windows 7 platforms and will help drive sales in the second half of the year and beyond. We are also working on an Apple-specific SDK which we'll have available in Q3 of this year which will enable Apple developers to build robust solutions with an Apple-certified scanner.

With all these positive indicators, we are feeling pretty good about our cordless handheld scanning business. We believe we've established a foothold in this emerging market, and I expect to see excellent long-term growth over the coming quarters and years.

In Q1, we also benefited from a major deployment of cordless ring scanners to a large soft drink manufacturer. After a lengthy evaluation period, we are pleased with the extremely positive feedback we received about its performance and benefits which resulted in a purchase for deployment in over 100 locations throughout the United States. This order positively impacted our Q1 revenue and it will benefit Q2 revenue (inaudible) to a slightly lesser extent. The cordless ring scanner is an excellent product from a technical point of view, but the sales effort for this product tends to be very involved before culminating in a revenue-generating deal. In addition, in this case, one of the industrial handheld manufacturers was the primary handheld supplier on the deal, so the information flow between all parties was challenging. We're pleased to have finally been awarded this business. This business category seems to have suffered severely over the past two years from the difficult economy, with little monies available for new projects of this type. We are unsure if the latest deal is an indication of a change in the tide, but we are seeing greater demand than we've seen for some time. And when a large company deploys such a solution, there is a tendency for many others to copy their success.

The bottom line on our cordless scanning business is we are very encouraged with the progress we made in Q1. We saw growth in all regions and expect to see further growth in Q2 and through the end of the year.

We are excited about the growth in both our handheld and cordless scanning business which, combined, represent 82% of our total Q1 revenue. Going forward, the growth of these two businesses will drive the growth for the company. The remaining 18% of our revenue is made up of service and OEM at 11%. Our legacy revenue has fallen to about 7%, which we expect to fall to less than 3% in Q2.

On the expense side, we remain extremely cost-conscious and continue to lower our overall cost of operating the business, further reducing expenses by $400,000 in Q1, which is down 19% from expenses in Q1 last year. At the same time, revenues in Q1 increased by 6%. As a result of lower expenses and increased revenue, we were within $300,000 of achieving positive EBITDA in Q1.

In summary, we believe we can hold expenses at these levels in Q2 and increase our revenue based on the backlog we already have in place. We are seeing a much-improved business environment and are benefiting from HP's departure on the handheld side. We are also seeing very good demand for our cordless scanning products and expect that this trend will continue.

From our efforts to right-size the organization, we believe we can achieve positive EBITDA in Q2 of 2011. While the past two to three years have been a tremendous struggle, we believe the worst is now behind us and we look forward to some brighter days ahead.

I would now like to turn the call over to Dave for his comments. Dave?

DAVE DUNLAP, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, SOCKET MOBILE, INC.: Thank you, Kevin.

Our first quarter of 2011 revenue was $4 million, a 54% increase over revenues of $2.6 million in the previous quarter. Sales of our cordless barcode scanning products increased from $457,000 to $1.2 million, representing 30% of total Q1 revenue, consisting of $486,000 in sales of our 2D cordless barcode scanners, introduced last year; sales of our linear cordless barcode scanners of $259,000; and sales of our cordless ring scanner of $464,000. In addition, our handheld computer sales increased from $1.5 million in Q4 to $2.1 million in Q1, representing 52% of our Q1 revenue, as our LCD screen supplier increased shipment, enabling more units to be manufactured and shipped.

Total orders received during the first quarter for all of our products were $5 million, resulting in an increase in our backlog of shippable orders from $2.4 million at the beginning of the first quarter to $3.2 million at the end of the quarter. $2.5 million of this order backlog entering the second quarter is for handheld computers. As Kevin mentioned, handheld computer revenue continues to be determined by the availability of LCD screens, and our supplier is making progress in catching up on screen shortages.

With new orders in the second quarter for both handheld computers and cordless barcode scanning products continuing at sustainable, break-even or better levels, we anticipate additional sequential growth in the second quarter with the expectation of achieving positive EBITDA results for the quarter. That growth will drive higher margins as we spread our fixed manufacturing costs over a larger number of units sold. Our margins of 37.5% in the first quarter improved from margins of 35.4% in the previous quarter due to higher first-quarter revenue volume, partially offset by a non-recurring charge of $60,000 -- or 1.5 percentage points -- in the first quarter.

We expect margins to continue to improve as our revenues increase. Our operating expenses in the first quarter were $2.1 million, down from $2.6 million in the same quarter a year ago and down from $2.4 million in the previous quarter. We will continue to hold down our operating expenses to allow the benefits of growth to pass through to the bottom line.

In our first-quarter earnings announcement, we reported earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- or EBITDA -- which is a traditional measurement of operating profitability. At $4 million in revenue, our EBITDA loss was $295,000 with our break-even point for positive EBITDA results being at about $4.7 million in revenue. If the supply channel continues its catch-up with screens for our handheld computers as anticipated, we would expect to report positive EBITDA results in the second quarter.

Our working capital balances benefited in the first quarter from the release of $711,000 of cash in a restricted note collateral account at the end of the year. Our convertible note balances are secured by qualified receivables and, to the extent necessary, in cash. The higher levels of shipments and revenue in the first quarter and higher receivables at the end of the quarter, in combination with the conversion by the noteholder of $200,000 of outstanding notes during the quarter, enabled the release of all of our collateral cash as of the end of the first quarter. We also satisfied $500,000 of trade payables to our principal contract manufacturer with the issuance of $500,000 of common stock. As our shipping levels increase, we expect positive operating results to contribute to working capital and cash liquidity.

We are working with a note investor to allow the remaining $800,000 in notes to be converted into common stock. Once the notes have been fully converted, we will be free to re-establish a working capital bank line to fund anticipated growth. And to assist with building investor interest in our common stock and better tracking our progress, we have engaged an analyst to prepare a report on Socket for release during May and to update that report from time to time as we move through the year.

We will also be presenting on May 24 at the Securities Research Associates Spring Growth Stock Conference in San Francisco. The presentation will be webcasted and we will be able to provide a further update on our second-quarter progress.

We continue to see an easing of the slowdown effects of the economic downturn as many customers' projects in our pipeline that were moving slowly or on hold are now moving forward toward completion and deployment. As Hewlett-Packard continues to phase out sales of its 200 Series Classic handheld computers in selected regions of the world, we are being contacted by more and more businesses looking to use our SoMo handheld computer in their existing applications. The SoMo 650 is an entirely compatible replacement handheld computer for the HP 200 Series, allowing existing applications to run without change.

In our development roadmap for our barcode scanners, we are completing for Q3 delivery the ability to use our SocketScan 10 software with Apple iPads, iPods and iTouch computers running the current Apple operating system. SocketScan 10 will allow developers to easily add barcode scanning to their applications, as is available today for Windows, Windows Mobile, Blackberry and Android devices. Many of these devices, including Apple devices, (inaudible) they also accept scans from our barcode scanners, as it's entered through the keyboard using the Bluetooth HID protocol.

In Q3, we also expect to release the unique Apple SKU of our 2D scanner which reads both linear and 2D barcodes for us with our SocketScan 10 software.

For the past two years, Socket has operated as a significantly leaner organization, including fewer employees and extensive cost-reduction programs that reduced salaries and discretionary spending. At the same time, we've maintained essential development programs and remain firmly committed to serving the business mobility markets with our mobile handheld computers and data collection devices supporting Windows Mobile applications on our SoMo 650 handheld computer and with our barcode scanners and RFID readers on Windows, Windows Mobile, Blackberry, Android and soon Apple applications on a wide range of smartphones. We will continue to work closely with developers who wish to incorporate barcode scanning into their applications.

Socket continues to be highly leveraged, both on the supply side -- where contract manufacturers have plenty of capacity to support growth -- and on the distribution side, where our many distribution partners and application partners are interacting with customers around the world.

Our annual meeting of stockholders is scheduled for tomorrow, April 27, at the company's facilities in Newark, California. On the ballot this year are the re-election of our current directors and the ratification of Moss Adams to serve as our independent auditors for 2011.

We continue to receive strong support from our vendors, our customers and our application partners, and we are particularly appreciative of the dedicated work and the continued and unwavering support we've received from our employees and from our stockholders who share our vision of mobile opportunities in our key vertical markets of health care and hospitality, and the improved productivity that results from enabling mobile workers to collect and process information while mobile.

Now let me turn the call back to the operator for your questions. Operator?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS.) Our first question comes from Brian Swift from Security Research Associates.

BRIAN SWIFT, ANALYST, SECURITY RESEARCH ASSOCIATES: Thank you. I wonder if you could elaborate a little bit on addressing your display shortage issue in terms of how you're progressing against working off your backlog and kind of related to when you're going to be able to more aggressively pursue some of these soon-to-be former HP clients. Maybe give us a little window on that.

KEVIN MILLS: Yes. It would be a pleasure. So the situation has continued to improve. Obviously, in Q4, we had very limited supply. It improved particularly well after Chinese New Year which basically ended middle of February. We received in probably something in the 3,500 range. We recognized revenue on 2,945, I think, as I said in my comments. And the supply continues to come in. We also have a replacement screen -- or second source, if you will -- lined up that we hope to bring online in Q2 -- towards the end of Q2. So right now, today we have enough supply. Well, we don't have enough supply. We have sufficient supply from the existing manufacturer and we have a high level of confidence that those screens are manufactured or in manufacturing and they will be delivered largely on time. And we've done the software work, etc. to bring on a second source which we expect to bring June, and then once we have that, I think we'll be out of the woods with regards to the LCD situation.

BRIAN SWIFT: Okay. And what -- and again, you're being able to a little bit more aggressively market the (inaudible) to these -- to the soon-to-be former HP clients?

KEVIN MILLS: Correct. We highlighted Japan as an area that we had a good relationship -- a special relationship with HP. We went there. We've been doing our best to support all the customers we are now receiving in the Japanese market. Unless we can provide samples to potentially new customers, it's very difficult to move forward. We will be in a position, I think, to provide samples, I would say, towards the end of May, early June. Most people will take 60 days to evaluate and ensure that the SoMo is, in fact, 100% HP-compatible and then we'll be in a position to service those orders as we get into the summer months.

DAVE DUNLAP: You can see the strength of the activities that we did just in Japan, Brian. In the first quarter, we've received close to a half a million dollars in orders for SoMos -- most of it for delivery in the second quarter -- to former HP customers and, as Kevin mentioned, we'd like to think that's indicative of the type of response that we'll get as we see HP pulling back their 200 Series handhelds in other locations of the world. And they are doing that systematically, but obviously, over an extended period of time. Our current supplier has already promised us some 45 -- should allow us to ship about 4,500 units just from that supplier, and most of that will be in by the end of May. So we are looking to see if we can add to that from our current supplier or bring our second source into line by the end of the second quarter, but even if we just do the 4,500 units, that again is a 50% increase over what we were able to do in the SoMo category in Q1.

BRIAN SWIFT: And what was the backlog that you're trying to fill (inaudible) units?

KEVIN MILLS: We currently have a little over 5,000 units in backlog.

DAVE DUNLAP: It was about $2.6 million at the end of Q1.

BRIAN SWIFT: Okay.

DAVE DUNLAP: So what that would do is it would bring our revenues in Q2 -- essentially, we'd be able to ship most of the -- if not all of the backlog we have on hand today and move forward into the backlog that will be coming -- is coming in in April and beyond. Again, we're anxious to pick up the pace as quickly as our suppliers are able, so we're paying a lot of attention to both sources of supply to see what we can do to motivate (inaudible).

KEVIN MILLS: And we have a path worn out to Taiwan and back, basically meeting with both our manufacturer as well as suppliers to make sure everything stays on track.

BRIAN SWIFT: Okay. And I guess, lastly, do you -- all of this is obviously catching up with backlog, but do you -- what's your comfort level of kind of continuing to see the demand side grow as we go to second quarter, third quarter?

KEVIN MILLS: Well, I think we're reasonably comfortable on that score also. First of all, the bookings that come in were higher. I think we booked $2.6 million in the category -- in the quarter, even though we only shipped our service to $2.1. The other thing is we probably have a high degree of visibility on 75% of the business -- that we know who the reseller is and what the end-user and potential application that they're using the device for. We have made a conscious effort to track when we're doing HP replacement business as opposed to new business. Certainly, in the US right now, it's all new business, I would say, and the majority in Europe is new business, whereas Asia -- particularly driven by Japan -- a lot of it's replacement business. So we can -- we have a good feeling of the, I would say, depth of the business. In addition, we are seeing a lot of people whose projects were sidelined for the last two years coming back with the same requirements. They were happy that we were able to service them with the SoMo previously. They were limited by budgets and the general strength of the economy. So I think that there is a good opportunity here to build the company and that we're not just relying to the HP departure. I think the business would be growing even if HP stayed in. I think HP is just adding some winds to our backs in terms of moving the business forward.

DAVE DUNLAP: But the order base has continued robustly in April. So it's the fourth consecutive month since the beginning of January that we've seen that high order base. We've already received over $1.4 million in new orders since the beginning of April, and that doesn't include the orders from our largest customer which we anticipate will be coming in shortly, which could easily add --

KEVIN MILLS: Another million.

DAVE DUNLAP: Another million dollars to that total for shipment between now and the end of the quarter, the beginning of next quarter. So as long as we continue to see that robust base, we -- so far, that base has been at sustainable break-even or better levels.

BRIAN SWIFT: And I guess lastly, $5 million roughly is still the break-even level as far as from a --

KEVIN MILLS: Yes. So --

BRIAN SWIFT: (Inaudible) standpoint as opposed to cash standpoint?

DAVE DUNLAP: Yes. If you just go forward -- and I -- we're using the EBITDA measurement because, while we have these notes outstanding, you have this debt discount amortization and a few other amortizations that have no impact on cash, and they will vary based on when we convert notes and other things. But if you pull those away from an EBITDA-type of calculation, we would have hit break-even at about $4.7 million -- bottom line break-even -- and that's pretty close to the cash number as well.

BRIAN SWIFT: Okay.

KEVIN MILLS: But as we convert some of these notes in Q2, it will add a charge that would reduce our earnings but, as Dave points out, it's a non-cash charge and that's why we're reporting EBITDA because it keeps it more consistent and people can see the improvement over the various quarters.

BRIAN SWIFT: Okay.

KEVIN MILLS: Okay?

BRIAN SWIFT: Alright. Thanks.

KEVIN MILLS: Thank you very much, Brian.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS.) Our next question comes from [Bernard Fidel] who is a private investor.

BERNARD FIDEL, PRIVATE INVESTOR: Hello?

KEVIN MILLS: Hello?

DAVE DUNLAP: Hi, Dr. Fidel.

KEVIN MILLS: How are you?

BERNARD FIDEL: How are you doing?

KEVIN MILLS: Good.

BERNARD FIDEL: It seems like this is the best news we've heard in a couple of years.

KEVIN MILLS: I would second that. It's certainly been a while since we've had such positive news.

BERNARD FIDEL: Well, it's -- you answered a lot of my questions already so I crossed those out.

KEVIN MILLS: Okay. Good.

BERNARD FIDEL: In the first quarter, if it weren't for the fact about the supply problem, what would the sales have been? A rough figure, I know.

KEVIN MILLS: Well, I would say we would have been north of $5 million, roughly. So we would have been positive in Q1 if we had supply.

DAVE DUNLAP: We had $1.5 million of shippable orders that we -- in other words, the dates were such that we could have shipped them had we had supply -- which we couldn't ship. So --

BERNARD FIDEL: Five and a half, in other words.

KEVIN MILLS: Well, yes, but you're not going to see all of it recognized. So I think we would have been north of 5 is, I think, a fairer assessment of where we would be, but that would have been profitable operating level.

DAVE DUNLAP: Sure. Because you had some backlog coming into the quarter as well that was in the same category, but $5 million is sufficient for us to be at the --

KEVIN MILLS: Profitable.

DAVE DUNLAP: Profitable level. So we're looking to, of course, surpass that and sustain that as we move through the rest of the year.

BERNARD FIDEL: For the second quarter, assuming you get all the material for the SoMo, etc., what could that add up to? What's the potential for sales in the second quarter?

KEVIN MILLS: Well, in our planning, we are not assuming we get all of the backlog cleared because we don't have a firm commitment from our manufacturer that that's possible at this time. So we're assuming we get about 4,500 units, which we're comfortable we can get in Q2. If we had unlimited supply, I think we would have the potential to ship probably close to 7,000 units. We are backlogged a little over 5,000 and we have two and a half months to go, and as Dave mentioned, the order pace has remained strong. But I think to expect that number is just unrealistically optimistic when we know that we need to make sure we have a secure supply of screens and other components. And today, we're highly confident on 4,500 with some upside potential, but it would be a stretch to go beyond that.

DAVE DUNLAP: But even with --

BERNARD FIDEL: If it shipped 4,500, what would that do for sales for the quarter?

KEVIN MILLS: Well, essentially, the extra 1,500 units would be an additional -- let's say $750,000 or thereabouts.

DAVE DUNLAP: Yes, and what it would do is move us up into the $5-million range which is the range we've been talking about as hitting --

KEVIN MILLS: EBITDA-positive.

DAVE DUNLAP: EBITDA-positive results.

BERNARD FIDEL: Right. Okay. In other words, if you had all the supply, you'd be able to ship 7 -- what's the highest number of SoMos you shipped so far?

KEVIN MILLS: In any given quarter -- I don't think we've ever broken 4,000. I think we've gone into the high-3's, but -- so Q2, we would expect to be a record in terms of SoMos shipped. So -- yes.

BERNARD FIDEL: And you think that if we had the equipment, it would be like 7,000?

KEVIN MILLS: Yes. If we had the -- well, but you have to be a little bit careful because you're carrying your backlog that you've built up over basically two and a half quarters. So yes, there seems to be stronger demand than we've ever seen in the past, coupled with we're carrying backlog. If we could instantly have 7,000 units, I believe you'd be able to ship them all this quarter, but we're not going to have that. So we're getting a little bit ahead of ourselves here.

BERNARD FIDEL: Okay. No. That sounds good. Remember the contract that was -- the potential contract from last summer about the nursing home contract? It was a fairly large one. How is that getting along?

KEVIN MILLS: Sorry. Which one?

BERNARD FIDEL: There was a nursing home contract.

KEVIN MILLS: Oh yes. Actually -- I would say, interestingly and thankfully, it's actually a little bit on hold right now. The company acquired another company and they're in the process of digesting it so they put the project on hold for, we believe, about 3 months, which actually suits us much better because if they needed to go forward right now, we couldn't service their requirement. So the deal, we believe, is still available to us but is on hold because they've acquired another company and in the process of, I would say, digesting that. So the project is still very much there, but it's not an imminent project, which suits us just fine because we're not in a position to support it in the short term. We believe as we get into the second half of the year we won't see constraint by supply like we are now, and we're looking forward for those type of deals to drive us to the next level.

BERNARD FIDEL: Right. Well, if they purchased another company, the contract could even expand because they would probably want to put it in their other --

KEVIN MILLS: Absolutely.

BERNARD FIDEL: Facilities, too.

KEVIN MILLS: And that's exactly where they are. They have -- the parent company, if you will, is pretty bullish on a SoMo-based solution and they're now working with their other company to get them all on the same system, which we believe will be SoMo-based. But they called us up and said they have to do their own work for the next two months, so they actually put the project on hold for three months and will get back to us, I would say, towards the end of this quarter.

BERNARD FIDEL: But it's quite active though? It's --

KEVIN MILLS: Yes. They're actively testing and they have a good number of units in daily use that they did have while the project was going forward. Again, for a project of this scale, it is typical that they take 100 or so units and put them into one facility and run them for three to six months. We were well down that process when they put it on hold.

BERNARD FIDEL: Alright. Remember there was a contract -- oh, more than a year ago in England -- for hospitality?

KEVIN MILLS: Yes. For the festival.

BERNARD FIDEL: Yes. How's that (inaudible)?

KEVIN MILLS: Again -- I thought you asked this last call as well. Again, I haven't really reached out and chased them. We haven't had a lot of interaction with them. We believe they're still doing well, but it's very difficult for us to go chasing new business when we can't service the existing business we have. So my short answer is I don't know exactly where they are. We have increased our resources in the UK beginning in Q2, and we will have more of an answer, I think, for you on that one at the next call.

BERNARD FIDEL: And with Hewlett-Packard, is there any rumor or something like that when they -- which country is next that they'll be going out of like Japan?

KEVIN MILLS: No. I (inaudible) -- they're a huge organization. They're driven by many things. The regional sales people do have some discretion. They also run out of inventory. So depending on what level of business you're doing with HP, the information is slightly different. We would expect the consumer category to be where the last of the inventory is sold, but the business organizations are being told in different countries that they're out or going out. But I would expect that most of this will get resolved in the next 60 to 90 days and we'll be in a good position. What we do is we track HP on their website and they publish -- you can go to different websites like Brazil or India or the UK or whatever and you can see the availability of different products. It's ever-changing, but certainly the devices are systematically going away based on the information they're posting on the web pages.

BERNARD FIDEL: Alright. Two more questions. The shipment for scanners in the second quarter -- should that -- is that strong or there's an improvement as per the first quarter, we'll say?

KEVIN MILLS: Yes. We are seeing a lot of people beginning to use iPhones and iPads to do business processes. We have seen a systematic uptick. I think that we would expect to see this continue through the end of the year. I mentioned that we will be shipping SDKs which will make it even easier for people to embed our solutions into their applications. I think this, as a category, is now coming into its own. I think we're -- we've established a foothold and we think this is a big business. So we're expecting our cordless scanning to continue to rise in Q2 and through the rest of the year.

BERNARD FIDEL: Okay. One last one. I think this would be more for the CFO, Dave Dunlap -- a financial thing. In the event -- it's always difficult to equate sales to profitability, but let's assume -- and I'm not that far off -- you had a sales quarter which is a potential, if not a probability, in the near term of -- we'll say $8 million to $9 million. What would that translate into earnings?

DAVE DUNLAP: Sure. Let me build a simple model for you. Our product contributions before we apply our fixed overhead costs are about 50%. So with $8 million -- which is twice what we did this quarter -- assume your product costs of about $4 million, and our fixed costs, including all the people that we use for -- in the manufacturing area and the like -- about half a million. So that would give you a contribution of $3.5 million at $8 million and, at $9 million, about $4 million. Our operating expenses, which were $2.1 million -- we would probably spend a little more on operations because we would look to increase some of the things we curtailed that would help drive additional business and are already (inaudible) support costs, but let's say the $3.5 million at the $8 million revenue level -- the operating expenses were $2.3 million to $2.5 million. That would leave you earnings before tax of $1 million to $1.2 million. $1.2 million with let's assume 4.5 million shares outstanding -- assuming more note conversions -- about $0.25, $0.26 a share. And if you take the higher level -- the $9 million -- maybe you spend a little more in expenses. Say you have $1.5 million in profit -- 4.5 million shares -- it's about $0.33. So that might be the type of expectation that you would get based on achieving those types of numbers. But as you know, there are lots of variables, including the pricing, cost of the products. Volume generally means we can some product costs down, but larger deals sometimes get better pricing. And so it's an ongoing process. Mix is a factor. But we certainly can grow the bottom line rapidly because we are highly-leveraged. To go to these higher revenue levels, we just simply run the lines with our contract manufacturers a few days longer and our worldwide distribution channel -- again, all variable costs. So nothing that causes us to spend a lot of money on sales force or spend a lot of money on capital equipment or anything else to achieve these higher levels. So we actually look forward to moving these revenues up. We should be able to handle it just fine.

BERNARD FIDEL: That adds up to over $1 a share very easily if we get to those levels in profits. I want to ask Kevin one last thing. Kevin -- this is the last question. I'll let someone else go. What do you see -- the way things are going now -- would be a normal or a good sales quarter? What would you expect in revenue -- in gross sales, I should say? I'm sorry.

KEVIN MILLS: Well, again, I think there's two parts to the question. I think what's achievable in the short term, I would be happy if we could start with a 5 in the number on the next quarter. That would be, I think, a big step forward. But ultimately, I think we have to get up into the 8 to 10-per-quarter range if we want to pay back our shareholders, etc. So I think that this year I would be very happy if we could do 4, 5, 6 and then grow from there over the next three quarters, but it's early in the year. We're off to a good start. We're still limited by supply. So I would just say stay tuned. No matter what number you do, the next quarter has to be higher. That's what makes companies work. So I don't think you ever get to a satisfied number, but you make progress along a track.

BERNARD FIDEL: Yes. I'm talking about the second half of the year when your supply is normal, shall we say?

KEVIN MILLS: Yes. Again, I think we have to get back into the $20-million-plus range this year as a goal. Our organization really needs that level to get, I would say, to stage 1 in terms of sustainable business, and if you get to the $40-million-a-year run rate, you'd have a sustainable, highly profitable business. And before we get to a sustainable, highly profitable business, I'd like to get to a sustainable business, though I think we're well on our way based on what we have in Q1 and what we see in Q2, and I'm sure we'll be able to give you more color on your answer at the next call.

BERNARD FIDEL: Okay. That's good. You'll get someone else now. Thank you.

KEVIN MILLS: Thank you very much, Dr. Fidel.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Steve Swanson who's a private investor.

STEVE SWANSON, PRIVATE INVESTOR: Gentlemen, what drove the gross profit margin down 5 points relative to 2010 first quarter? That's a big drop-off.

KEVIN MILLS: Well, I'll let Dave -- look, there was a few things. Obviously, there's product mix. We had a 2% hit for a one-time charge and, in terms of -- I don't know what else, Dave, we have.

DAVE DUNLAP: Yes. Well, I think our margins -- some of our newer products, like our 2D scanner, are currently selling at lower product -- lower margins because of -- it's really the first edition of that device. And we do have scheduled for later this year a cost-reduction version that will bring it up to our more traditional margins. Our margins for barcode scanning a year ago were in the -- product margins now without the overhead were in the 56%, 57% range, and they've averaged down now to around 51%. So most of that change is in the product mix.

KEVIN MILLS: The other thing is that we did have a bigger percent of legacy business and the legacy stuff tends to have a higher margin. I think we're down to 7% of our business would relate to this category of legacy and it goes to 3% next quarter.

DAVE DUNLAP: Yes. We -- our OEM wireless business, which is just selling our wireless technologies into third-party devices, was over half a million dollars in the first quarter a year ago, down to about $150,000 first quarter this year. And again, those margins tended to be higher than the margins. So again, it was the mix of what we were selling, but we constantly have an ongoing program by which we look to cost-reduce products that are doing well, and I think you'll see those margins plus volume [spread] your fixed costs. So I think you'll see a return of several percentage points with the growth that we're talking about in Q2 and it should continue upwards from there.

KEVIN MILLS: Yes. And we would expect Q2 margins to be, I would say, in line or better than the Q1 margins you're looking at right now as we move forward through the year.

STEVE SWANSON: As we move forward, we should expect margins above 40%?

KEVIN MILLS: Yes.

DAVE DUNLAP: Yes.

STEVE SWANSON: I guess the other question I had -- and apologies if this has been asked already -- but on the P&L, you've got a deferred -- I'm sorry -- debt discount amortization of $316,000 for the quarter. Is this a one-time event or is this going to be a recurring charge going forward?

KEVIN MILLS: No. We have a conversion of a note and that -- so we don't have control over when the note gets converted. So some of it is one-time related to the conversion; some of it is just amortization.

DAVE DUNLAP: So the accounting rules, as you -- I probably want to painfully avoid this -- but the accounting rules require when you do something other than a straight common stock offering to use fair market value accounting, and the warrants are treated as if they were valued at fair market value and they're treated as a discount from the note. And then, in addition, any resetting of the conversion pricing below market price since the time you issued the note is treated as an additional debt discount. So with that combination, for a $1-million note offering, we actually had $1 million in debt discount that will be amortized along with the notes over an 18-month period. And then the other rule is that if the notes get converted, you pick up any remaining unamortized discount on those notes that were converted. So if we were to convert all the remaining notes -- the $800,000 of remaining notes -- there would be $628,000 of remaining debt discount that would be taken in. So --

KEVIN MILLS: Whatever (inaudible).

DAVE DUNLAP: That's your remainder and if it turns out that they're not converting, then that number turns out to be somewhere in the range of $150,000 a quarter. But the reason it's larger in the first quarter is that there was $200,000 of note converted and we had to recognize the debt discount associated with that. So hopefully I've been clear on the accounting approach, but there's no cash implication of that charge, but it's still one that, for accounting rules, we have to take.

STEVE SWANSON: Yes. I understand that. So if things go as well as we all hope they will go, we're going to take that whole hit over the next several months.

KEVIN MILLS: We would hope.

DAVE DUNLAP: We would love to do that. Obviously, the benefit to us is that it -- these were initially -- notes were secured with the assets of the company. It would free up that security which then would enable us to move on to a more normal bank line arrangement, and that is really what's needed to finance the growth because it grows right along with the growth of the business.

STEVE SWANSON: Okay. The other question I had was are we going to convert any of the other payables into stock like we did that one (inaudible)?

KEVIN MILLS: We have no current plans to do so.

STEVE SWANSON: Okay. Alright. Thanks.

KEVIN MILLS: Thank you very much.

DAVE DUNLAP: Thanks, Steve.

OPERATOR: Thank you. At this time, we have no further questions. I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any closing comments.

KEVIN MILLS: Okay. Thank you very much. We would just like to wish everyone a good afternoon and appreciate your continued support and look forward to reporting to you in July. Thanks again. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
soccom : Socket Mobile Inc. | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | imobsoft : Mobile Applications Software | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icper : Computer Peripherals | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110511e74q0002z
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Taubman Centers Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,961 words
   PD
21 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Thank you for holding and welcome to the Taubman Centers first quarter earnings conference call. The call will begin with prepared remarks and then we will open the line for questions. On the call today will be Robert Taubman, Taubman Centers Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Lisa Payne, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and Barbara Baker, Vice President of Investor Relations. Now I'll turn the call over to Barbara for opening remarks.

   TD
BARBARA BAKER, VP IR, TAUBMAN CENTERS INC: Thank you, Shawn and welcome, everyone to our first quarter conference call. Yesterday we released our results for the quarter and our supplemental information package. Both are available on our web site, www.Taubman.com. If you would like to have them sent to you automatically each quarter, please sign up under the request information on our web site. As you know, during this conference call, we'll be making forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.

These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance, although actual results may differ materially. Please see our SEC filings, including our latest form 10-K and subsequent reports for a discussion of the variance risks and uncertainties underlying our forward-looking statements. During this call, we'll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by SEC regulation G. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures are included on our earnings release and in our supplemental information. In addition, a replay of the call is provided through a link on the Investor Relations section of our web site.

For our agenda today, first, Bobby will be providing an overview of the quarter, followed by a discussion of the Company's operating statistics and external growth. Then Lisa will discuss our financial performance and our balance sheet. Bobby will return to discuss guidance and provide closing comments and then we'll be available for your questions. We ask that you limit your questions to two and then if you have more, queue up again. That way everyone has an opportunity to ask a question. With that, let me turn the call over to Bobby.

ROBERT TAUBMAN, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, TAUBMAN CENTERS INC: Thanks, Barbara. And welcome everyone to our call. We're delighted with our continued strong tenant sales. The momentum which gained strength throughout 2010, has clearly continued into this year. This is now five consecutive quarters of double-digit growth in sales. Retail has fueled its momentum. They are increasing inventory levels and adding sales people back to the floor to capture the shopper demand.

Sales per square foot for the quarter was up 14.3%. This is on top of a nearly 11% increase in the first quarter of last year. Our trailing 12 month sales per square foot was $581, setting a new record for our Company and for the industry. Even with a later Easter this year, sales were up over 15% for the month of March. All our centers show growth in the quarter. Our Florida centers had particularly strong performance. We believe our dominant assets are gaining market share and benefiting from increased tourism. More than half our centers showed double-digit sales increases for the quarter, including three of our Michigan centers. These sales increases were broad based, both geographically and by merchandise category.

Now let's look at specific categories. Electronics continue to be strong, with Apple and Sony showing terrific increases. Sports and athletic footwear also showed strength. Champs Sports, Foot Locker and Foot Action also posted double-digit growth. Women's apparel is performing very well. Victoria's Secret is continuing its exceptional growth. Ann Taylor, J.Jill and Chico, three national brands, continue to rebound strongly.

Luxury is also is doing well, from Gucci to Coach to Cartier to Burberry. Other tenants showing great increases, range from Abercrombie to Restoration Hardware. These sales increases, likely to be well ahead of our industry, are driving retailer expectations and enhancing the leasing environment. We can see that leasing momentum in the volume of deals we're doing. We're significantly ahead of last year, and outpacing normal first quarter activity.

For example, at Beverly, we've continued to grow our critical mass of luxury tenants, with the signings of Jimmy Choo and Yves Saint Laurent. At Dolphin, we've signed more outlet stores, including Cole Haan, Ed Hardy and US Polo. At Great Lakes Crossing, new outlet stores, including Puma, US Polo, dressbarn, Robert Wayne Footwear, J.Crew and Levi's. At International Plaza in Stanford Town Center we signed AX Armani, an excellent add at both centers. At Willow Bend, the new Crate & Barrel opened above its plan. Restoration Hardware is on schedule to open spring 2012 and Z Gallery has now committed to opening in spring of next year.

Collectively these three stores create a home furnishings destination unique to north Dallas. Especially as they close other stores in the market and consolidate all into our location. Overall, this positive sales environment has helped us make very good progress in leasing. About 90% of our 2011 leasing is now done. We expect to continue that -- we expect -- we continue to expect that occupancy for the next two quarters will be relatively flat or modestly down. However, by year-end, our year-over-year occupancy is expected to be up as much as 100 basis points.

Moving to rent, we're very pleased by the 3.5% increase in our average rents per square foot compared to last year. We continue to expect to be up about 3% for the full year. NOI was up a strong 5.1%, excluding lease cancellation fees. Rents and recoveries were the primary drivers. We now expect NOI growth, excluding lease cancellation, to be about 2% up for the full year. Opening rent per square foot for the trailing 12 months is $53.05, up 15.4%.

We expect the year to moderate from this percentage to a rate likely in the high single digits. Our ending occupancy was 87.9% for the quarter, 30 basis points less than a year ago. If you add in our temporary leasing of 3.7%, we're at 91.6%, actually up 20 basis points over last year. Lease space at 90.5% is down 80 basis points from the first quarter 2010, and down sequentially from December 31 as well, by 150 basis points. This is due to the large amount of scheduled terminations in the first quarter at our centers, with ten year anniversaries. We're delighted we're now leasing this space in the context of this strong sales environment.

Bankruptcies were 40 basis points for the quarter. This is up from the first quarter of 2010, but still very low relative to normal first quarter history. Just one quick development update at Salt Lake City. We continue to be on schedule for the opening in March 2012. Leasing is now over 80% committed. We're delighted to say that at least a third, perhaps as many as 50% of the tenants will be unique to the market.

We intend to make a retailer announcement sometime after the ICSC convention. We are on target for an 11% to 12% unlevered return on our $76 million investment. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Lisa, then I'll return at the end of the call for some closing comments.

LISA PAYNE, VICE CHAIRMAN, CFO, TAUBMAN CENTERS INC: Thank you, Bobby. This quarter our FFO per share was $0.63. Here are the components of the net $0.03 variance from 2010's FFO of $0.60. They're listed on page eight of the supplemental. Total rents up $0.055 from the prior year. Minimum rents increased $0.04, due primarily to an increase in average rent per square foot, partially offset by lower occupancy.

Percentage rents are up $0.015, from 2010, due to our strong sales. Net recoveries favorable by $0.03. About half of this variance came from lower expenses and higher CAM capital. The other half was due to a change in our methodology, for allocating the revenue from our fixed CAM tenants over the year. Previously, quarterly CAM revenue was determined based on an anticipated overall annual recovery rate, with a true-up in the fourth quarter.

We've changed the methodology as the number of fixed CAM tenants has significantly increased and there's less of a relationship between revenues and expenses. We are now recognizing the fixed CAM revenue when it is billed, while continuing the ratio methodology for triple net tenants. This caused a favorable impact in this quarter, although without this impact, we were still over 3%. We expect positive impacts in the second and third quarters as well. We anticipate an offsetting negative impact in the fourth quarter.

This is just a matter of timing as we expect the recoveries ratio for the full year to be comparable to the full-year 2010. We do expect increase quarterly volatility in our net recoveries, as the number of fixed CAM tenants increases. Revenue will be booked for these tenants evenly over the year, while expenses can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. Net revenue from management leasing and development services, favorable by $0.025 cents. This is primarily from a one time collection of past due development fees on the Riverstone project in South Korea. These services were provided in prior years, so there is no associated expense. In addition, revenue from the IFC contracts in Korea has increased.

Next is lease cancellation revenue. Down $0.05 as expected. Last year's revenue included one large payment in the quarter. With the pace of current collections, we are now lowering our guidance from $6 million to $8 million to between $6 million and $7 million for 2011. Other operating expense, unfavorable by $0.02. This is primarily due to increased US pre-development costs from our new outlet joint venture and to a lesser extent an increase in bad debt expense. The increased bad debt expense is related to a few tenants.

We now expect that our combined US and Asia pre-development expense will be about $17 million for the full-year. Interest expense favorable by $0.015 cents. This is primarily due to low floating rates on our international plaza loans, which had previously been fixed. In addition, we had a favorable rate impact from the refinancing of MacArthur in September of last year. These positives were partially offset by our Partridge Creek loan, which was refinanced from a floating rate loan to a fixed rate loan at a higher rate. And lastly, the operations of the Pier and Regency continue to negatively impact our earnings, but not our cash. The $0.02 negative variance from 2010 was due to both a decline in NOI and compounding a default interest at the Pier.

Regency is presently not in default on its loan, as the cash flow generated from the asset has been sufficient to cover debt service through April. We are in discussions with the lender, as we are not supporting this asset with cash, and the principal is due in November. In our guidance, we are assuming that the default interest will begin in June, although the timing is difficult to predict. In total, these two centers negatively impacted our FFO per share by $0.06 this quarter, compared to $0.04 last year. Unfortunately we can't predict when the transfer of title for both Regency and the Pier will occur. However, the special servicer has recently engaged Eastdale to market the Pier loan.

Now before turning to the balance sheet, I'd like to make a comment about quarterly NOI expectations. As Bobby said, we expect our NOI growth rate, excluding lease cancellation income, to be about 2% for the year. This is an increase from our prior range of 1% to 2%. We expect positive growth rates in NOI for the next two quarters, similar to the first quarter. However, we expect the fourth quarter to have significant negative growth for two reasons, the change in methodology for fixed CAM tenants, as well as significantly lower projected CAM capital spending.

Now turning to our balance sheet. Our debt to total market capitalization stood at 38.7% at quarter end, which is the lowest we've seen since early 2007. Our interest coverage was 2.4 times and our fixed charge coverage stood at 2.0 times. We have now extended our Fair Oaks $250 million loan, in which we have a 50% interest. Currently the loan is floating at LIBOR plus 1.4%, and it is pre-payable at any time. The International Plaza loan was also extended in January of this year. Currently the loan is floating at LIBOR plus 1.15% and is also pre-payable at any time.

Because of the current favorable rate environment, we are updating our guidance to assume that we will fix both of these loans in the third quarter, versus one in our prior guidance. At today's rates, both loans would be refinanced at approximately 5.25%. We expect proceeds in excess of the current amounts outstanding. We anticipate the impact of this change to be approximately $0.03 negative to our prior guidance. We have extended the maturity on our primary $550 million line of credit to February of 2012. We have also extended the maturity date on our second line of credit to April 2012. Both maintain their favorable pricing.

In addition, the maximum amount available under the second facility was increased from $40 million to $65 million to accommodate the $25 million letter of credit required by the lessor of the City Creek Center project. The availability under the line will revert to $40 million when the obligation under the letter of credit is extinguished. And with that, I'd like to turn the call back to Bobby.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Thanks, Lisa. As we said in the release, for the full year 2011, we're increasing FFO guidance to a range of $2.88 to $2.98, excluding the Pier and Regency. Including a full year impact of these two assets, our FFO guidance is $2.64 to $2.74. A $0.24 non-cash reduction. The primary reasons for our changes in guidance include, on the positive side, our expectation that comp center on NOI, excluding lease cancellations, will be up about 2%, the top of our original range. Offsetting this is $1 million increase in pre-development expense, and a $2.5 million increase in interest expense for moving to fixed rate loans at both Fair Oaks and International Plaza.

In conclusion, we're delighted with the continuing sales momentum at levels that are frankly surprising. It's clearly bolstering retailer expectations and supporting higher rent levels, the core really looks great. And we continue to feel good about our external growth prospects and the platforms we've created. So with that I'd like to open the call for questions. As Barbara said, please limit your questions to two. Shawn, are you there?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your first question comes from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America. Your line is now open.

CRAIG SCHMIDT, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Thank you. Hey, Bobby. When do you think the especially in-line guys, the tenants, will get more aggressive in their open to buys, particularly in light of the strong sales?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, we're already feeling. Retailer expectations are way up, Craig. And with this kind of sales momentum, I mean five double-digit quarters in a row. To be at 14% on top of 11% is just pretty amazing. So we are seeing retailer expectations rise and we're seeing landlord pricing advantage start to improve. So I think you're going to see, at least in our centers, in our numbers, I think we're feeling very good about our core.

CRAIG SCHMIDT: Now, will these store openings be this year or the following year?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, you know most leases that are signed on a 12 month basis end up opening within that next 12 months. But there are a group of tenants that opened beyond. Some as much as two and three years later. But the vast majority, 70%, 80% plus percent, will open within 12 months of the lease signing.

CRAIG SCHMIDT: Great. And just having been pursuing the outlet business, are you feeling more confident, the same confidence or less confident in your ability to open stores in the next couple years?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: We feel very well positioned. And as I've said previously, we'd be very disappointed if we don't have more visible, at least one or two projects by the end of this year.

CRAIG SCHMIDT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Quentin Velleley from Citi Your line is now open.

QUENTIN VELLELEY, ANALYST, CITI: Hi, there. Just in terms of some of the tenants that were given rent abatement or rent relief over the last couple of years. Have you had much success either releasing those spaces or rolling the rents back up to higher rents?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Hi, Quinn. Well, I will say slowly. It's slowly beginning to decline. We said previously and that's how we feel today that it's going to be a few years before the excess rent really burns off. But we are beginning to see exactly what you're saying, that some of the tenants, that we're replacing some of these tenants with new tenants at higher rents.

QUENTIN VELLELEY: Right. So as you look at the rents that you've done in the last 12 months, I think the average is $53 a foot, which is a lot higher than the portfolio average of about $45. Can you just talk about what types of spaces you've leased in the last 12 months. I'm assuming it's some of your better space. Maybe in some of your better malls and how you expect that to change over the next 12 months.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well I can't give you an exact answer. But I would say that we've leased a lot of space. And on average the sample of that space will be the average for everything. So I don't think it's disproportionate in the best centers in only good locations. I really do think it's across the board.

And I think you're seeing, we had more space to lease this year, because of the 2001 anniversaries, ten years since those four properties opened up. So we have more space to lease now. And you're seeing that in the occupancy and lease space statistics. But they're still all within historic norms, when you look at the individual statistics. And we're still a very healthy range in the lease space versus the occupancy range. Occupancy space.

LISA PAYNE: Yes. And I just want to mention now that we've gone to the rolling 12, I think before when it was a quarter number, we had quite a small sample size. As Bobby indicated, now with the rolling 12, it does -- it is more like the [cash] sides of our portfolio. It gives a bigger sample size to do, to show.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Yes. And I would say Quinn, the bottom line is, we've been pushing rent as well. And the leverage is really shifting back to the landlord. So we waited as we said in the last couple of quarters, as we sensed that sales were improving, we really started to maximize rent. And on occupancy, it's really just a timing difference right now. At the end of the year, we're going to be up about 100 basis points as we said.

QUENTIN VELLELEY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jay Habermann from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JAY HABERMANN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Just following on that theme a little bit, in terms of, Bobby, you mentioned the retailer performance has been pretty broad based. Can you just talk about luxury versus the more traditional retailers and I guess the ability to push rents and what you're seeing in terms of demand for space. Because you've talked in the past about pushing occupancy costs higher over time.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Yes. I think that generally luxury and value have been performing the best, with tenants in between doing okay as well. I mean literally all of our shopping centers had positive growth in the first quarter. Now that's a very, very positive statement. So we feel good about luxury. I mean we talked about it, Beverly as an example. We've completely repositioned that center to high end over the last several years. And we now have about 15 plus tenants that are true luxury tenants.

And by adding Jimmy Choo and adding Yves Saint Laurent it's just the continuation. The stores that are in there are doing very well. I mean, Louis Vitton, as an example, has now expanded their store three separate times in that location. At Short Hills, they've expanded I think three or four separate times. So you're seeing very good strength in luxury. And on the outlet side and the value side, you're seeing enormous strength there as well. Our tenants at Dolphins, our tenants at Great Lakes Crossing are performing very well.

JAY HABERMANN: Okay. And second question, as you look at your overall increase in EBITDA and comparing sort of the JV portfolio versus wholly owned. Most of the increase is coming from the wholly owned side. Is there anything sort of holding back the JV assets?

LISA PAYNE: This is Lisa. I don't think there's anything -- I think -- I'm just trying to think through who is in there. We do have a couple of our -- Dolphin is obviously doing extremely well in Great Lakes, which we have talked about. That happens to be in the 100% owned. But we do have some great assets in the UJV. So I don't really think Westfarms, Waterside, Millenia, I don't think there's really anything to read from it.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: I would also comment that we own about 80%. We own about 80% of the overall TRG portfolio. So it's substantially ours either way.

JAY HABERMANN: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Christine McElroy from UBS. Your line is open.

CHRISTINE MCELROY, ANALYST, UBS: Hey, good morning. Just looking at your average base rents. I'm just wondering what drove this 3.5% increase from Q4 to Q1? And did the burn off of rent relief come into play there? It just seemed like a really quick recovery in ABR over the last three months?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Rent relief really wasn't a factor. It was really higher opening represents and lower closing rents. You know, we get CPI increases that kicked in. And all spreads were positive. So that if, rent relief really was not a factor. Not yet.

CHRISTINE MCELROY: Okay. I'm just, to the extent of the increase, it took you about a year to go from back in Q2 of 2008 to go from 45 down to 43. And it seems like just such a huge increase. Was it the CPI kicking in? Was that just the -- in terms of the extent of the increase in Q1?

LISA PAYNE: I think it was pretty much evenly -- I think essentially more about rent. But definitely CPI does have some positive impact in this quarter. And I don't have a percentage of what each one is. You know you can see from the opening rent numbers, that Quinn was asking about, opening rents were really up.

CHRISTINE MCELROY: Right. Would you expect it to remain fairly flat over the year?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, we projected 3% for the year.

CHRISTINE MCELROY: Right. Right. Okay.

LISA PAYNE: Yes. It's a little bit more. Probably the extra amount is the CPI kicking in. But we still are expecting a very strong year. And frankly, I've been saying to people, we would expect our opening rents to get back up to the levels we had, because sales performance has improved so much.

CHRISTINE MCELROY: Okay. And then just secondly, in terms of your occupancy. You said you expect up about 100 basis points year-over-year by year end. Was that physical occupancy or the lease rate?

LISA PAYNE: Physical.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: No, that's physical occupancy.

CHRISTINE MCELROY: Okay. Would you expect that spread between physical and lease rates to compress by year end?

LISA PAYNE: Generally I think that is the trend. You have more occupancy and that's, you're working hard to get that occupancy by year end. Obviously temporary space is at its all time peak also at year end. But I would say typically, yes. Bobby?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Yes. Look, if you look over the last five years, our range has been 110 basis points to 360 basis points, in leased space, occupied space. And we're 260 right now. My guess is that by year end, we will again be in that range some place.

CHRISTINE MCELROY: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Alex Goldfarb from Sandler O'Neill. Your line is now open.

ALEX GOLDFARB, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Yes. Hi. Good morning. Lisa, just going quickly to interest expense. Your debt level seems to be about the same from last year. And yet interest expense on a sequential quarter was down about $3.5 million. If you could just walk through sort of what was in the number and what caused that delta.

LISA PAYNE: Well, in my comments, I indicated that we're now floating on International Plaza, and Fair Oaks. Both of which are floating at LIBOR plus one -- 140 on one and 115. In addition, we did refinance MacArthur at significantly lower rates. So all of those had very significant increase -- impacts on interest expense. Now as I indicated, we are going to fix two of those loans by the third quarter, which is why we're taking our guidance -- we've increased guidance. We're absorbing a negative $0.03, that we didn't plan on, because we're now going to fix both of those loans. But the quarter-over-quarter or their sequential impact is really primarily those loans going floating.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Effectively what we've done with that $0.03 and bringing the guidance -- the bottom of the guidance up $0.02, is really bringing up $0.05. We're really absorbing the three plus the two.

ALEX GOLDFARB: Okay, so think it's just a timing thing then versus what I had originally, what we had originally expected. Bobby, then if you go back, I think it was to your follow-up to Jay's question. You were saying that luxury is doing well, value is doing well. If you think about the rise in gas prices, luxury it's easy to imagine that gas as a percent of their expenditures is quite small. But one would think that for the value customer, gasoline would be a much bigger part of their disposable income. Where do you think -- or what are your retailer tenants, what are the tenants saying? Where are customers sort of offsetting or absorbing that gas expense to be able to continue to produce some rather healthy sales gains?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, look it's a very good question. Clearly at some point gas prices do impact people's decisions about spending money. But we recently did a survey of all our centers, literally in the last few weeks, talking about fuel prices. Are we seeing it at all within the stores or from our customers. And we didn't have a single center that indicated this was going to be -- this was impacting them at this point. Now that could change as prices get higher. But at this point very recent information says it's not impacting our sales.

ALEX GOLDFARB: So you think now that we've had gas at $4 for a few years now, that people are just numb to it and it's part of their -- they just accept it as is?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: It's very hard to explain why sales are up 14% on top of 11% five quarters in a row at this level. There's a momentum. And that momentum is continuing. And whether it's pent up demand, whatever the issues are that create these kind of sales, even in the face of the Middle East, in the face of all of the geopolitical issuings, in the face of Japan, still unemployment is high. All these things. You're still seeing sales growth. And it's pretty remarkable the level it is. I mean we projected 3% to 4% this year. We were just wrong. And it's got to be better than 3% to 4% when you start out at 14%. So I don't know whether $4 gas price is now absorbed in the mentality. But I can tell you that people are buying things in our shopping centers.

ALEX GOLDFARB: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Paul Morgan, Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.

PAUL MORGAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Bobby, you alluded in your comments to essentially capturing market share, getting expansions in your malls from retailers who are closing other stores in the market. And I just kind of wanted to ask a little bit more detail about that. I mean, I know you've got the 2001 vintage ball. So you probably have a lot of square feet where you have some flexibility to move people around or expand them. And I mean has that been, a major trend in the leasing, that you're able to capture more share, retailers, some of whom you named as being -- posting strong sales growth, have also been trimming their store base in the US in some cases. And I'm wondering whether you can kind of take advantage of that and say close your store over here, we have space and we can expand you there. Is that taking place?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, Paul, I think there's a long-term trend that people have been writing about. That we've believed in for a long time. That the really strong class A properties are going to continue to gain market share. And other assets in the market, will get less and atrophy over time. And I think you're seeing it in lots of ways. It's where tenants want to be and once the tenants, the new tenants, the fresh merchandise, the unique merchandise ends up in your mall, you end up with more people wanting to shop there. And when you have more people and more sales, you end up with more capital for reinvestment and we have reinvested in our assets all over the place, including over the last several years.

I mean here in Detroit, look what we did. We expanded with Nordstrom's and 100,000 square feet at a great asset, Twelve Oaks. We converted Great Lakes Crossing into an outlet center that's had incredible customer response and retailer response. We invested at Fairlane Town Center and added restaurants. And we built Partridge Creek. These are all good assets that have been reinvested in, that are dominating their marketplaces. And that's where tenants want to be and then shoppers want to be there. So I absolutely believe in what you said. And the thesis of good malls getting better, isn't changing.

PAUL MORGAN: Okay. Great. And then the 2001 malls, I mean what, I know you don't do 100% ten year leases, but what percent of the kind of mall store shops are rolling over this year?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, I think we have our lease -- the total amount of space that's turning over in our cube. So you can see that it's bigger there. But generally in any new shopping center, in the first five years, you've got about 25%, 30% of the tenants that don't work for one reason or another and turnover. And then you get a little bit more turnover in the second five years. And you're right that in a new center you typically have a ten-year lease term. So that by the time you get to the ten years, you probably have about 60% on average of the space still there, that then is turning over, in essence its older rent levels that are now coming to higher rent levels. And as we said in our comments, we're delighted that this sales surge that we're seeing is now going to help us as we have this turnover of tenancy.

PAUL MORGAN: And that's kind of going to bleed through -- are we seeing most of that in this front quarter statistics or is that kind of really going to affect the whole year based on when these folks opened and when the leases were done?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Yes, I think it's all of 2011 and 2012 and you will see even some into 2013 (multiple speakers). Right. Right.

PAUL MORGAN: Thank you. Great.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Todd Thomas, KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

TODD THOMAS, ANALYST, KEYBANC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, good morning. With regard to your outlet strategy, I suspect that there's a fair amount of competition for some of the high quality markets that you're probably targeting. And so how would you weigh the high quality markets versus your return threshold. I guess which has more wiggle room as you kind of work through your strategy and do you think you'll have to sacrifice along the way?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: We've talked on the development side a lot about focusing on great assets, building great assets. On the mall side, we want to try to build assets that could be in the top half of our portfolio. On the outlet side, we've talked about assets that can do at least $400 a square foot, which is a class A asset in the outlet business. It's comparable to a $500 square foot asset in the US mall business. So yes there's competition. But we're not going to settle for lesser quality assets. All of this conversation today, all of the benefit of the sales environment that we've got, is about having good assets. And the more consistent your portfolio is, the better it is to lease every day of the week, in good times and bad. And we don't want to sacrifice that basic positioning of this Company with weaker assets.

TODD THOMAS: Okay. And then, I know you're more focused on development. But I was just wondering if you're also looking at acquisition opportunities?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: You know we look at everything that comes on the market. We look at stuff that's not on the market. And we're constantly talking to people. We've made acquisitions over the years. But we haven't built the business on the basis of acquisitions, others have very successfully. And most of those guys that, Simon, for instance, is a lot bigger than us. And they're in position to absorb dilution from very low cap rates that are harder for us to do. We think we have a lot of value to add and create in new developments. But we're out there looking. And one of these days we hope we'll be able to make an acquisition.

TODD THOMAS: Okay. That's helpful. Just lastly, I apologize if I missed it. I think you mentioned that the leasing fees at the IFCS were higher in the quarter. But the management leasing and development servicing comp that bumped a bit, is that increase in income sustainable going forward?

LISA PAYNE: A good amount of the increase, it was about $0.025 cents total, so a good part of that was a one time fee that we collected some past due fees. Bobby was a bill collector this quarter. And collected some past due fees from our partner at New Songdo. And it's not recurring.

TODD THOMAS: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Michael Mueller, JPMorgan. Your line is open.

SARAH KING, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi. This is Sarah King here with Mike. Just a follow-up on that last question regarding management fee income. Could you just talk about in general what the trends are there, what your expectations are. I guess for 2011 obviously you already gave guidance, and in the next few years.

LISA PAYNE: Yes. We've given guidance for this year that I believe we've said is going to be roughly flat with last year. But the IFC contract that we did sign, will start producing some additional income. I wouldn't say it's that significant. But we are making good money and frankly we're building a good platform and a good team there. And that's also beneficial. So I think you will see it gradually growing. There is a big incentive fee in that contract, which we've talked about. And that, though, would come largely in probably 2012, maybe 2013.

SARAH KING: Great. Thank you. And then one more question on the sales growth in terms of, with respect to the 14% sales growth. The luxury, it's clear that both luxury centers and value centers are doing well. But can you just talk about them as value centers versus luxury centers in terms of how they're driving your sales growth.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, I mean when you're up 14%, a lot of people are doing well. And as we said over half of our centers are in double digit. So it's not, there are centers in between that are doing very well too. And when we look at our comment about Michigan, three out of four in Michigan, one is a value center, and the other three assets that we have in Michigan are much more moderate. You know, they're not the luxury, we don't have any luxury tenants in any of those three centers. So they're in between. So it's really across the board. Yes, they're modestly better in luxury and in the value. But the ones in between are doing okay as well.

LISA PAYNE: And I'd say the luxury and value are -- there's not one dramatically better. They're pretty equally strong as we pick those two as doing particularly well.

SARAH KING: Excellent. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Ben Yang, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. Your line is now open.

BEN YANG, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Yes. Hi, good morning. Bobby, you never explosively broke it out, but in the past you have indicated that your pre-development costs are roughly half in the US and half in Asia. Given that these costs are rising and you have the new outlet platform today and the new president in Asia. Can you just give us a sense of whether that's still the case today or maybe the bulk of that is really allocated to the US, given the fact that you said you're going to talk about two more outlet centers sometime later this year.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, you know we do not break it out. And we feel that you know given how variable development can be, whether here or in Asia, the flexibility of having one line item is, we think important. And it is a combination of all three things, Asia, outlet and US mall development. And, you know, we're -- so I don't really feel it's helpful to break it out individually as you're suggesting. But we're up modestly.

We originally guided $16 million for all three of those areas. We're talking about a $1 million increase. And I think that actually is in all three areas of development that we're focused on. But we're generally within the range. Historically you know the broad range of the mid to high teens is where we've been. Even in our heaviest spending years. So we're not doing anything that is inconsistent with what we've done previously.

BEN YANG: Okay. And then you did give some visibility on the outlet center. I wonder, is it possible that you might make an announcement about a potential investment in Asia, as well some time this year? And are you looking at maybe outlet centers in Asia or maybe the platform is too young to really do that type of retail development in Asia at this point?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: I think it is possible that we could make an announcement on something in Asia this year. I also, as we've talked about, our strategy in Asia has shifted from pan Asia to focus on China and Korea. And also from just an iconic project to be willing to produce other types of products, including an outlet center is your question, as well as to do fee-for-services to help build our platform as we're doing very successfully with IFC that Lisa mentioned. So, yes, to your comments.

BEN YANG: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies & Company. Your line is now open.

TAYO OKUSANYA, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Oh, yes. Good morning. And congratulations on a solid quarter. Just two quick questions. First one, just given how strong the sales trends are at your tenants right now, when you are either renewing leases or signing new leases, can you talk a little bit about what target occupancies costs, kind of in mind when you're kind of setting lease rates?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, we've always talked about in the past that we look at a center, but we look at a specific tenant that's in the center, as we renew their lease, and we're trying to establish a total occupancy for that tenant. This is a [rent] CAM, all costs included, of something like 17% or north of trailing two year sales. And during the downturn, we said very transparently, that we weren't achieving 17%. That we essentially were achieving about 200 basis points less than that. Now it's very hard in times where sales go up or down very rapidly to really get a good, hard -- get your arms around what number you're really at. But we believe as sales increased, that we should be able to reestablish that benchmark of north of 17%, trailing two year sales.

TAYO OKUSANYA: Okay. And would you say you're doing more of that now, which is why the occupancy costs are going up in the entire portfolio?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, because of the very high sales and the rapid growth in sales, there's actually pressure to push down the overall portfolio numbers. So the number 17% north is really a different number than the average for the portfolio, which is usually circled 15% and has been as low as 13% and as high as the high 16% range.

TAYO OKUSANYA: I guess what -- I'm sorry Bob. What I was curious about, was this quarter versus last quarter, the occupancy prices spiked up quite a bit. And I was kind of curious whether you are finding many more leases at a much higher rate?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: I think it's really about seasonality, because the fourth quarter you now have 12 months in of the full year of sales and the first quarter is generally a lower than average for the four quarter sales numbers. So you have a higher number typically.

LISA PAYNE: Yes, for the quarter-over-quarter, which is the right way to look at it, we're down 15.4 down to 14.2. That's because of the high sales gross.

TAYO OKUSANYA: Got it. That's helpful. And then just one last question. I am just kind of giving that most of your retail categories are doing very well. Are there any particular retail [currents] or retail categories that are not doing well.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Not that come to mind. We have about 22 or 23 categories the way we dissect our sales. And of those, well over half are in double digits. So it's, we don't have a lot of tenants, a lot of categories that aren't doing well.

TAYO OKUSANYA: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Steve Sakwa from ISI Group. Your line is now open.

STEVE SAKWA, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. I guess to follow up on a couple of questions, Bobby. If you could just talk a little bit about more about the enthusiasm you have for the outlet business. I'm just wondering -- I'm sure you won't divulge locations. But how competitive are the areas in which you're looking, again, say Simon and Tanger. Are you looking at markets perhaps where there are not and might we look ICSC as a place to have you really kind of kick off the leasing for those kind of projects?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, it's a very competitive marketplace right now. I think a lot of people have recognized that the outlet business is a solid business, with great national tenants with good credit, very granular and predictable income streams. And if you can build a large property, you can create a very dominant presence, that's very hard, it's very high barriers to entry to try to create a competitor nearby, once you're established. So there are a number of competitors. Obviously led by Simon Chelsea and Tanger out there in the marketplace. And there are places where we might compete. And there are others that we focused on, perhaps before they might. Oh, and finally with respect to the ICSC, we are already leasing and looking at the many different locations. So, we're not planning on any major documents at the ICSC with respect to any individual site.

STEVE SAKWA: Okay. And just kind of focusing on Asia. Any sort of comments as it relates to the new president Rene and any kind of thoughts -- I realize he's only been on the job several months. But what are sort of the early indications from him as to things you might be able to do over there?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, he's obviously been working really hard. He is meeting with all kinds of people from, potential partners to government officials. He's building his team. He's been very impressed with the platform that we had in place. But we're adding in people that we think would be very helpful. He's exploring literally dozens of potential projects in one way or another. And we're building a pipeline. That's what we need to do. And I think somebody asked the question earlier, is it possible something might be announced this year? It's possible. But we don't know. We can't -- the development game is not something you can promise until you're ready to start construction.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors. Your line is open.

CEDRIK LACHANCE, ANALYST, GREEN STREET ADVISORS: Hi Bill. So you talked a lot about development. But we haven't talked about mall development in the US, with the increasing pace of sales that is in excess of what you were expecting. What do you think it means in terms of your ability to start malls in the United States in the next couple of years?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Hi, Cedric. I think that all of the stuff we've been saying in the last year, is still very consistent with how we feel today. We do think that new mall development will occur in the US over the next decade. There were roughly 40 projects that were built in the last decade. But we think that it's probably going to be less than half of that in the next ten years. So say 15 to 20 projects. We think most of that is going to be back ended to the last five years, versus the next five years. And we think that on average, if one to two projects get built over the next ten years we're going to be able to build four or five of those. And that's our goal. We are hopeful that we could start construction on something in 2012, which would mean that we would open something in 2014.

The gates that we have to cross through, do we have land and the site entitlements? Are the department stores ready to build? The department stores are gaining interest. They're looking at locations right now. They're not yet ready to start construction, except in very few locations. But we are talking to them very, very actively. And then the specialty stores have to be able to support rent levels that support new construction. And that will come when their sales productivity gains to the point where they are confident once again to do that. And given the high sales productivity that you point to, we believe that we're getting close to the point where all of those gates can be met and new projects can get in the ground. But again hopeful, not for 2011 but in 2012 to be able to begin our first one again.

CEDRIK LACHANCE: Okay. And in regards to the department stores, other than traditional department stores, or I guess in regards to anchors, other than traditional department stores, would you be looking at a grocer or less traditional type of anchor for new developments in the future?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, we're always considering nontraditional anchors in all of our properties. But we're a developer and a sponsor that really believes in the base concept of department store anchored centers. And that's what we're looking at going forward.

CEDRIK LACHANCE: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from [Guadum Gar] from Credit Suisse your line is now open.

GUADUM GAR, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yeah, good morning guys. You have about $217 million of preferred outstanding, paying about 8%. Do you plan to redeem them anytime soon?

LISA PAYNE: We always are looking at opportunities of obviously improving our capital structure. We do like the preferred securities since we are a fully secured borrower. It is effectively sub, sub, sub, sub debt but permanent because it doesn't have a maturity. We like that as well. As we look at the market right now, it's pretty much -- we might be able to get something done in the mid-sevens. We are continually talking to various financing sources about that. And if it ever becomes very compelling, we would look at potentially doing something. But we don't have any plans at this exact moment.

GUADUM GAR: Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Christy McElroy, UBS. Your line is now open.

ROSS NUSSBAUM, ANALYST, UBS: Hi. It's Ross Nussbaum here with Christy. A couple of follow-ups. I want to follow up on Christy's question regarding the 3.5% move in average base rent from the fourth quarter to the first quarter. And I guess what I'm struggling with, is that given where CPI is, and those increases would flow through over the course of the year, as leases expire, and given that you would have only renewed I'm guessing what maybe 3% of leases in the first quarter, I guess I'm struggling with how sequentially, in just one quarter, the entire based rent of the portfolio moved 3.5%. That would seem like it would be a move that would occur slowly over a year, not just in three

LISA PAYNE: Well, I'm sorry, Ross. I mean this is year-over-year, 12 months. It's not all -- it's first quarter. So -- I'm not sure I understand.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: I'm looking on page 16 of your supplemental. It says the average based rent for the Company is now $45.20 on a combined basis.

LISA PAYNE: Right.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: And at year-end 2010, the number was $43.66.

LISA PAYNE: Yes.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: That's the confusion, is how could that have moved so quickly.

LISA PAYNE: Well, it's -- I can tell you we had a significant opening rents that came on this quarter with the closings. We do have CPI that hits this quarter. I believe when you think about all of our leases that have CPI, not just the new leases, the leases have CPI the CPI kicks in. And I mean I don't know what to tell you, except it's both the CPI and absolutely opening rents.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Yes. And we're projecting 3% for the whole year.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: Right. Now that makes sense. I'll follow up with you afterwards. It's a sequential move that's tripping me up here.

LISA PAYNE: I'll try to look a little bit deeper into all -- the opening rent numbers. But I am fully confident that it's right. And that it's both opening rents, as well as CPI.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: Got it. Okay.

LISA PAYNE: I'll get behind the CPI numbers, too.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: All right. Thanks. The second question is just to make sure everybody is sort of understanding the Apple impact, if you will. Because they reported a 90% year-over-year increase in their store sales last night. Is it fair to still say that of the 14% sales increase, you had maybe only 100 or a little over 100 basis points of that, was sort of due to Apple?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well we don't want to get into a situation where we're creating precedent, that every single quarter we're going to be breaking down what one tenant's contribution is, no matter how important that tenant is. And clearly there's never been a tenant like Apple in any shopping center anywhere. But given that you've asked the question, and I don't want people to think that we're going to answer this every quarter. Because we really shouldn't. But I will say that we were double digit increase without Apple. Okay. So we were up 14%, we were up more than double digit without Apple. As impressive as Apple's statistics were. So this is across the board, many categories, many shopping centers that don't have Apple in them, were up very significantly.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: And the impact on occupancy cost, is there any meaningful, if I backed the envelope then I could come up with a 20 or 30 [bit] impact on your occupancy cost overall, does that sound ballpark?

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Well, we have never discussed exactly that statistic. But it does have impact on total occupancy costs. There's no question, because their sales productivity levels are so much higher than the average of the portfolio. And even though they're about 1% of a center or even a little less. They can be a 10% of the sales in the shopping center or even more.

LISA PAYNE: I will, though, mention that when our leasing -- when David goes and measures himself on his 17% occupancy costs, that's with Apple in it. He's not taking Apple out to say we're going to get 17% ex Apple. So we're measuring ourselves, like we're disclosing to you, shooting for a 17% number on sales across the portfolio.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: David is our head of leasing for those of you who don't know.

ROSS NUSSBAUM: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your next question comes from Michael Mueller from JPMorgan. Your line is now open.

MICHAEL MUELLER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Just a quick follow-up for Lisa. Lisa, you talked about likely getting some excess proceeds out of International Plaza and the Fair Oaks refinancings. How significant can those be?

LISA PAYNE: We paid down International Plaza when we extended it. So our plan is to basically bring it back up to the prior loan amount. I think that --

ROBERT TAUBMAN: It was $325 million.

LISA PAYNE: Right. $50 million.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Right.

LISA PAYNE: On that. And then we're likely to get a little bit of extra money out of Fair Oaks. Not that significant. But it's a decent amount.

MICHAEL MUELLER: Okay. Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: There are no further questions. I'll now turn the call back to Mr. Taubman.

ROBERT TAUBMAN: Thank you, Shawn. We're really delighted as you heard with how sales have been. Our core is really performing well. And we're just delighted. So we look forward to seeing you. I know many of you are coming to the ICSC and we'll see you there. If not, we'll see you at the next investor meeting. So thank you for investing in us. And we appreciate your questions. We're going to sign off now. Thank you, Shawn.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
taubmc : Taubman Centers Inc | applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i8500029 : Retail Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real Estate | icre : Construction/Real Estate | ireest : Real Estate | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
gplan : Urban Planning/Development | c151 : Earnings | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110505e74l0048w
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,047 words
   PD
21 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations for Verizon.

   TD
JOHN DOHERTY, SVP OF IR, VERIZON: Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm John Doherty. With me this morning is Fran Shammo, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website. I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.

Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are available on our website. This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.

Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to a newly formatted financial and operating information file that we've made available to you on our website. In addition to providing two years and eight quarters of historical financial information, we've added some new customer and connection metrics in wireless and wireline which better reflect the trends in our business.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran Shammo.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP AND CFO, VERIZON: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. At our investor meeting in late January, we talked about our 2011 priorities, our strong focus on business plan execution and translating revenue opportunities into profitable growth and share-owner value.

In looking at our first-quarter results, I would say we are off to a very strong start. Our wireless business performed extremely well, further solidifying our leadership position in the industry. Our 4G LTE network deployment is going very well, and our network performance has exceeded even our own very high expectations. In one independent test after another, our network's ability to deliver video and data with exceptional speed and performance has been unmatched.

Possibly even more impressive is the speed with which products and services are being developed for LTE. Through our LTE rollout, we have positioned ourselves on the leading edge of a whole new phase of wireless market development.

Our first-quarter wireless results once again demonstrate our ability to effectively manage growth and sustain profitability. We had a very strong quarter of device sales with 906,000 retail postpaid customer net additions. In a period of less than eight weeks, we activated 2.2 million iPhones, and in two weeks, we activated more than 260,000 of our first 4G LTE smartphone, the HTC ThunderBolt, at the premium price of $249.99.

In addition, we added about 250,000 4G Internet devices to our retail postpaid base in the quarter and quickly sold out of iPad 2 tablets in early March, so we built good momentum throughout the quarter.

Our wireless service EBITDA margin of 43.7% is a solid result; and once again demonstrates our ability to effectively manage the customer acquisition and retention costs associated with gaining market share and increasing smartphone penetration while sustaining our industry-leading profitable growth profile going forward.

In wireline, our first-quarter results showed continued improvement on the top line, with sequential EBITDA margin expansion for the fourth consecutive quarter. Our improved year-over-year performance was driven by continued strength in FiOS and lower line loss rates, resulting in consumer revenue growth of 1.9%, as well as accelerated growth of 12.8% in enterprise strategic services revenue.

In terms of cost management, while the first quarter has some seasonal pressures, we did realize the cost benefits of our 16,000 workforce reductions from last year.

On the strategic front, we closed the Terremark acquisition on April 11, and significantly improved our competitive position in the rapidly evolving managed hosting and cloud services space.

With these highlights as a backdrop, let's begin a more detailed review of the quarter on slide 4, starting with a look at consolidated results.

Consolidated revenue growth in the first quarter accelerated to 5.3% year over year, up sharply from 2.3% growth in the fourth quarter. Total revenue growth in wireless increased to 10.2%. And while much of this growth was driven by equipment sales in this quarter, we do expect to see future benefit from these sales in subsequent quarters in terms of higher recurring revenue streams.

So, top-line growth is what we expected, and we were on track to meet our full-year revenue guidance of between 4% and 8% annual growth. Our consolidated EBITDA for the first quarter totaled $8.5 billion, up 3.8% year over year.

The 31.4% EBITDA margin is down about 50 basis points from a year ago, primarily the result of a higher acquisition, and retention costs, in wireless. Again, our expectation is for solid margin performance throughout the year, with some fluctuation in quarters featuring highly successful new device launches.

In terms of earnings, we reported $0.51 for the quarter without any non-operational or special items to point out. This compares with $0.48 in the first quarter a year ago, after adjustments for the impact of divested operations and nonoperational charges in that period.

With our 4G deployment well underway, our capitalized interest will be significantly lower this year. As a result, wireless interest expense will reflect about $150 million for each quarter this year. In terms of income taxes, the effective income tax rate attributable to Verizon for the first quarter was 30%. For the full year 2011, we are anticipating an effective tax rate to be in a range consistent with the past three quarters, post the Frontier and Alltel divestitures. Both of these items were fully contemplated in the overall earnings guidance we provided in January. With first-quarter growth of 6.3%, we are on track to meet our stated objective of 5% to 8% growth off an adjusted 2010 base of $2.08 per share.

Let's turn to cash flow and capital spending on the next slide. In addition to the higher capital spending this quarter, cash flows from operations were impacted by higher acquisition and retention costs in wireless due to the iPhone, and the first-quarter funding of our full-year pension obligation, which was $392 million. In addition, the first half of last year included cash flows from the divested properties.

In terms of free cash flow, we generated $672 million in the first quarter, and although this is lower than our recent trend, our cash flow outlook for the year remains very strong. Many of the cash flows were timing, and this quarter did not impact our cash management planning for the year.

I would also say that there is no change in our thinking with regard to the timing of a Verizon Wireless dividend to its parent companies, which we believe will begin in 2012.

In the first quarter, total CapEx was $4.4 billion, of which $2.7 billion was wireless. While we expect overall capital spending in 2011 to be essentially flat compared to 2010, we have started the year more aggressively in wireless, spending a bit more early in the year on 4G LTE, consistent with our overall deployment plans and continuing to add growth capacity to our 3G network. Looking forward, we will continue to expand our 4G LTE footprint and invest the necessary capital in 3G to stay ahead of the data demand curve.

Wireline capital of $1.5 billion was down 6.4% year over year. I would point out that we started last year in a very conservative manner, prudently spending only $3.4 billion in the first quarter, given the higher level of economic uncertainty at that time.

In 2011, we will be very disciplined in the terms of overall capital spending matching our spending with growth opportunities.

Our balance sheet remains strong, and we ended the quarter with net debt of $47.2 billion and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of about 1.4 times.

On slide 6, we have displayed first-quarter revenues for each of the last three years, which is a good illustration of the transformation and growth of our revenue base. At our investor meeting in January, we talked about this changing revenue mix and how we have organized ourselves around the growth markets of the future based on a foundation of superior, high IQ networks that provide the platforms for innovation that we think are unmatched in our industry.

Today, 77% of our revenues are in higher growth areas, a sharp increase over the course of the last two years. As we look forward, we are big believers that our high IQ networks give us a strong strategic position and put us at the center of the trends that are driving growth in our industry.

In all these strategic areas, with our continued emphasis on advancing the deployment of our 4G LTE network in wireless, with our all-fiber network in mass markets, and through our ever-improving global and cloud computing capabilities for enterprise customers, we are well-positioned to drive higher top-line growth.

Let's now move into a review of the segments starting with wireless on slide 7.

As I said earlier, our wireless business had a very impressive quarter, with growth in retail customers and ARPU driving service revenue growth and profitability. Total revenue grew to $16.9 billion in the quarter, up 10.2% year over year, with total service revenue up 6.3%. With the majority of our device sales occurring in the back half of the first quarter, we are expecting to see higher service revenue growth in the second quarter. In terms of retail postpaid ARPU growth, while we reported year-over-year growth of 2.2% in the first quarter, the month of March was 2.8% higher than last year, which is a good indication of increased revenue and ARPU growth in the second quarter.

In terms of new connections, we added a total of 1.8 million this quarter, with 906,000 net retail postpaid customers and 897,000 wholesale and other connections, including machine to machine. While our focus continues to be very much on the retail postpaid market, which continues to be the vast majority of our customer base, we are also broadening our portfolio of machine-to-machine connections in a number of areas -- vehicle tracking, meter reading, and alarm monitoring, to name a few. And we expect this to be an area of growth for us.

We generated $6.3 billion of EBITDA in the first quarter, up 1.7% year over year. And while growth in this quarter was impacted by acquisition and retention costs, our service EBITDA margin of 43.7% remains industry-leading. We believe that our wireless EBITDA margins, while they may fluctuate in a given quarter related to successful device introductions, will end up in the mid-40% range for the year.

The incremental recurring revenue from smartphone and 4G device sales will help to mitigate the higher acquisition and retention costs. In addition, as I noted in January, we have also identified more than $1 billion in cost-saving opportunities in wireless this year. I am confident that our wireless team will meet this challenge and achieve these savings.

Let's take a closer look at data growth and device sales on slide 8. Total data revenue grew $1 billion or 22.3% year over year, and now represents 38% of total service revenue. A key driver of data growth in 2011 will be the increased penetration of smart phones in our retail postpaid phone base. To that end, we made good progress, ending the quarter with penetration of 32%.

Roughly 60% of all phones sold in the quarter were smartphones, up from 36% just one year ago. 65% of all smartphone sales were new to the category, meaning they were existing customers with feature phones or new Verizon customers.

With regard to the iPhone specifically, 48% of upgrades were new to the smartphone category, meaning the $30 monthly data plan is incremental revenue. About 22% of our iPhone activations represent new Verizon customers.

In terms of 4G LTE, we've seen strong demand for the HTC ThunderBolt and for the PC cards. On March 29, we introduced our first 4G Mobile HotSpot device, and this past Monday, we announced the availability of our second one. We think these 4G Mobile HotSpots will be very popular with customers, as they essentially allow any WiFi-enabled device to function as a 4G LTE networked device.

We expect demand for our 4G LTE products to strengthen as more smartphones, tablets and hotspots are added to our device portfolio. This includes the recent launch of the Novatel and Samsung mobile hotspots, as well as the addition of new 4G LTE smartphones in April, May and beyond. Clearly, our LTE network performance, our continued buildout and the successful early product launches are having a very positive impact on the development and strength of the entire LTE ecosystem.

As customer acceptance and enthusiasm for smartphones, tablets, and all kinds of connected devices gains momentum and becomes more integral to the people's personal and work lives, innovation will drive this entire category and expand the overall market.

With regard to the further expansion of our LTE footprint, we announced 38 markets in our initial launch in December, covering about 110 million POPs. Since then, we've announced more than 100 additional markets in places like Detroit, Memphis, Milwaukee, Louisville, Indianapolis, Sacramento, and Honolulu, to name just a few. By the end of the year, we plan to be in about 175 markets covering more than 185 million POPs. Let's take a closer look at ARPU next on slide 9.

Throughout last year, we saw accelerating postpaid ARPU growth, starting with 0.6% year-over-year growth in the first quarter and steadily ramping to 2.5% growth in the fourth quarter. In the first quarter of 2011, retail postpaid ARPU growth was 2.2%. We attribute this is to a few factors, but most notably to light sales in the early part of the quarter in anticipation of the iPhone 4 debut on our network in February.

As I said earlier, with much stronger device sales from that point forward, our exit rate for ARPU growth heading into the second quarter was much higher at 2.8%. Data revenue continues to be sourced primarily from Web and e-mail services, which increased to $3.2 billion this quarter, up more than 38% from a year ago. Messaging, which makes up about one third of data revenue, is still showing growth, up 7% on a year-over-year basis.

At the end of the quarter, we had a total of 6.1 million Internet devices in our postpaid-base, with 364,000 net adds in the first quarter, driven by MiFi devices and 4G PC cards.

As you would expect, our churn metrics for this quarter were excellent. Our retail postpaid churn was 1.01%, improving by 4 basis points year over year. We are encouraged by the strong demand exiting the quarter and the positive implications for increased revenue and ARPU. You can expect us to effectively deliver both growth and profitability with a focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market, increasing the penetration of smart phones, and selling more Internet devices, which will drive continued data revenue growth.

Let's move to our wireline segment next on slide 10. As I said earlier, we are seeing an improvement in revenue trends. The 2.2% year-over-year decline in the first quarter is 60 basis points better than the 2.8% decline last quarter. And if we exclude the effects of the international wholesale pricing change, total wireline revenues were down 0.7% year over year.

On the consumer side, our FiOS broadband and video products continue to drive a significant shift in our revenue mix. FiOS now accounts for 54% of consumer revenue, up from 45% a year ago. FiOS revenue in the quarter grew 23.7% year over year and FiOS ARPU is more than $146.

On the global enterprise side, we had positive year-over-year growth, driven by strong strategic services growth of 12.8%. As with FiOS in the consumer market, strategic services are transforming our revenue mix, now representing 46% of total enterprise. Within this category, advanced services like managed network solutions, contact center solutions, IP communications, and our cloud offerings are growing very nicely.

From a profitability perspective, segment EBITDA increased $211 million or 9.7%, resulting in a 250 basis point year-over-year improvement in our EBITDA margin to 23.6%. The main reason behind the improvement was our workforce reduction initiatives in 2010 which help reduce our overall cost of labor.

Sequentially, we had a fourth consecutive quarter of EBITDA margin improvement, with an increase of 10 basis points to 23.6%. We achieved this through a combination of revenue stabilization and effective cost management, as the typical first-quarter cost pressures were offset by the effect of the workforce reductions.

Our goal is to achieve margin expansions in 2011 through continuous improvement throughout the year. And while it is unlikely that our workforce reductions in 2011 will come close to what we experienced last year, our focus on reducing our cost structure will be vigilant.

Let's take a closer look at the mass markets on slide 11. Within the mass markets category, consumer revenue of $3.4 billion grew 1.9% versus last year. Consumer ARPU grew to $90.55, an increase of 10.5% from a year ago.

The continued penetration of our broadband and video products have increased the scale of our FiOS platform and it is now significant enough to more than offset the secular and competitive pressures in this part of the business.

We had another solid quarter of customer growth in FiOS TV, adding 192,000 subscribers for a total of 3.7 million TV customers. Our FiOS TV penetration at the end of the quarter was 29%.

On the broadband side, we added 207,000 new FiOS Internet customers in the quarter. Our FiOS Internet customer base increased to 4.3 million, representing 33% penetration of homes open for sale. By adding in our 4.2 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers, we ended the quarter with a total of 8.5 million broadband connections. This reflects an overall increase of 98,000 broadband connections, which marks our best sequential growth since the second quarter of 2009.

As I have noted in the past, our customer satisfaction ratings are very high and our churn rates are very low. Our renewed focus on driving penetration in existing markets has been effective, and we are pleased with the overall progress in FiOS. We are off to a good start this year, and our pipeline for TV service is up 43% year over year.

Let's move next to our business markets on slide 12. While we are seeing some signs of improvement, revenues in the business market continue to be challenged by economic pressures. Global enterprise revenue was up 1% year over year. Strategic services drove the year-over-year improvement, led by a very strong growth in advanced services such as managed network, call center, IP communications, and our cloud offerings. As I have said, this category of services is becoming a larger part of our revenues, and we are incenting our sales force to sell these solutions to our enterprise customers.

As we experienced last quarter, the absolute dollar growth in strategic services outpaced the dollar decline in core enterprise services.

In global wholesale, revenues declined 11.2% year over year. As we've discussed, our route rationalization strategy has resulted in a sustainable decline in international voice revenue, worth $162 million this quarter on a year-over-year basis. Since these price changes were initiated in mid 2010, I would say we have a few more quarters to work through before the comparative impact of these actions moderates.

Absent these effects, first-quarter global wholesale revenues declined 5% year over year. This decline is primarily in domestic voice where we continue to experience secular pressures and lower usage volumes.

I will wrap up here with the chart we used at our investor meeting in January, showing the keys to success in terms of executing our business model. We had a solid first quarter and a quality start to the year. Our early performance gives us great confidence that we are on track to meet our financial objectives and continue to position ourselves for future growth and profitability.

As I mentioned earlier, we have built great momentum and have entered the second quarter in very good shape. We are seeing continued demand for our Apple products and 4G LTE devices, with more smartphones, tablets, and Internet devices coming to market shortly. As such, we expect service revenue growth and ARPU accretion to accelerate with each quarter this year. Our FiOS customer pipeline is very healthy, and we are very excited to add Terremark, one of the premier assets in hosting and cloud services to our portfolio of global assets and capabilities, enhancing our competitive position around the cloud opportunity and contributing to our growth.

I will stop here and turn it back to John, so we can open up the call to your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran. Brad, let's open it up for questions please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thanks. Good morning. First on postpaid ARPU, Fran, you had some helpful commentary on the exit rates at 2.8% in March. I guess what that implies though is that the entry rates in January were probably roughly 1.5% growth, which is a step down from the fourth-quarter rates. And it would seem to imply to me that the 4G laptop cards you launched in December, I guess it's logical that you would have over indexed sales here early in the quarter, which generally carry a little bit lower ARPU.

I'm wondering if you can offer granularity. Is that what happened? Just trying to put a finer point on sort of the progress to the quarter you had on ARPU.

And the second question on wireless margins, you talked about lumpiness in margins attached to handset launches; obviously two big launches in the quarter with iPhone and ThunderBolt, but it was only a partial quarter for both. So does that mean that in Q2 you would expect a bit of an incremental margin dilution as we get a full quarter of those devices? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thank you, Jason. Okay, so let's address the ARPU first. So, if you look at what we did, we came out of December at 2.5%, as I said in the previous comment. We had a very soft January. We continue to maintain our upgrades. If you recall when we launched the iPhone initially, we had a week of just upgrades to our current base, which we felt was important to show our loyalty to our customers who stayed with us even though we didn't have the iPhone.

And then we launched the iPhone, and we had people who were waiting for that device. So again, the first half of the quarter was soft. There was really no incremental ARPU if you will in that first half, given that sales were low and upgrades continued. But as we launched the iPhone, and if you think about it, it was only a half a quarter, but it's also important to realize that when we launched the iPhone, initially, we only launched it through our direct channel and a couple major retailers.

And then in the beginning of March, we launched it to the rest of our national retailers and some of our regional retailers, and we really weren't 100% out there with the distribution until mid-March.

The second piece is, is that we only had two weeks of sales worth on the LTE device on smartphones. And then finally, we just launched the 4G device the last day of the month. So I think if you look at all of this and you look at the pro rate of access on these devices, that's why we only generated 2.2% of growth, but we accelerated to 2.8%. And as we said, we think that this will just continue to accelerate as the year goes on as we launch these into initial devices.

Now getting into your margin comment, no, I don't think that you will see a decline in the second quarter. The fluctuation, I believe, will come when a new device from Apple is launched, whenever that may be, and that we will be, on the first time, on equal footing with our competitors on a new phone hitting the market, which will also be a global device. So I think there will be some fluctuations when that happens, but we don't anticipate any fluctuation in the second quarter.

JASON ARMSTRONG: That's helpful. Thanks, Fran.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Brad. Can we move on to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Okay, thanks guys. Is -- a quick question on wireless, is 50% smartphone concentration still the target? Because I think it implies some accelerating penetration gains which would also support your view on the improvements in ARPU.

And then secondly, on the wireline side, you showed some progress there and I guess you will show some more progress when you lap the changes in the wholesale pricing. Is it possible that we see some wireline growth by the end of the year in wireline?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. So first off, on the 50% penetration, yes, we still are very confident in the 50%. And let me just be clear here because at the end of December, we labeled that we were at 26% penetration, but we changed the way we were calculating our penetration, so I want to make sure everybody's clear.

We were kind of -- we were doing a different calculation than the rest of the industry, so we changed to equal the rest of the industry, so that we had an apples to apples comparison. So if you look at the 26% we disclosed in December, it really was 28%. Now we ended this quarter at 32%.

This, I believe, is going to accelerate as we continue to launch and have a full month of Apple on the decks. Also, with the LTE launches, as you know, we only had two weeks of our first HTC handset. We are coming out with our Samsung handset very shortly here, and then LG will be following. So we will have up to three devices launched by the second quarter, so again, that's going to accelerate the growth, and yes, we are very confident that we will hit the 50% penetration.

And then on the wireline side of the house, I think as we continue here, we are confident that we can continue to expand the EBITDA margin in wireline. Obviously, there is a lot of cost reduction that has to take place. We continue to work out and look at the entire logistics ecosystem. We are continuing to reduce real estate. Last year, we reduced over 7 million and our target is equal for this year.

We have a whole garage study being -- taking place and we are closing garages and consolidating on that. So as you look at that continued margin, I think that's one piece of it. But as you mentioned, as we work ourselves out of the international voice decline year over year, and I think that will happen entering into the third quarter, if the economy starts to stimulate a bit, and we continue to obviously penetrate on the FiOS side, I think there is a good point where we could actually see some top-line growth out of the wireline segment.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, thanks, Fran.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, John. Brad, can we move on, please?

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Good morning. You talked about closing the Terremark transaction, Fran. Are you able to give us any color on sort of headline trends for Q1 for Terremark?

And then, I think in the past, in March, you talked about unlimited pricing, reviewing that on your new devices in the summer timeframe. Perhaps you could give us an update on that. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thank you, Simon. So, on Terremark, we closed the transaction on April 11. We will have our first full quarter here in the second quarter. Terremark continued to grow at their steady pace of 20% through the first quarter. We believe that that will continue into the second quarter and obviously Bob Toohey and his team on the business side have a lot of integration activity going on with Manny and his team. And are going to hit the street strong with an offer here, a collaborative offer between the former Verizon business and the Terremark assets. So I think we're off to a good start there.

On the unlimited pricing, we are going to be going to a tiered pricing in midsummer this year. That is a definite, and you will hear more of that as we get there, but yes, we will be going to a tiered pricing for both 3G and 4G devices.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Simon. Brad, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi, thanks. Good morning. One question and then just a couple housekeeping things. On the question, can you talk a little bit more about the business markets, particularly what you're seeing in small and medium end of the market? And are you seeing any more competition from cable there?

And then from a housekeeping perspective, can you just give us the wireless replacement rate, device replacement rate during the quarter for postpaid; and where the wireless business ended on a net debt basis for the quarter? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, thanks, Mike. So, on the -- first off, on the SMB, I think what we will see is first, if you look at on the wireline side of the house and the overlap that we have there, obviously, we are at a disadvantage when you think about the DSL and the voice strategy that we have on the former copper plant. We're at a disadvantage to cable in that area.

But if you look at our FiOS, and where we have passed the prem and actually connect at the prem in small business. Our growth rate there is 37% year over year. So there is a difference between what market on the overlap of the wireline assets we're talking about. So I think that's important to note. But from an overall perspective, I think we are flat.

We've made some improvement year over year, but I will tell you I'm not happy with the progress in the small-business arena, and Bobby Mudge and his team are attacking that, but even within the Bob Toohey organization of Verizon business outside of the wireline footprint, with the Terremark acquisition, I think we have some unique offers that we can now make to the small-business arena around cloud, and I think that will help some of the offset of the former MCI mass markets which continues to decline.

From a housekeeping perspective, on net debt, from an overall perspective on net debt, we ended the quarter as I said at $47.2 billion and wireless ended at about around $12 billion.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Great, thanks. And just the wireless device replacement rate for postpaid? If you have that for the quarter, that would be great too.

FRAN SHAMMO: Now, Michael, just to clarify, when you say replacement, you mean upgrades?

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Yes.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, so just a couple things around that. The other one point I want to make on the debt side of the house is that we have about, as I said, we have a $4 billion maturity coming up here in May that will come out of wireless, so there's a maturity of about $4 billion. So that will take the net debt down on the wireless side as well.

Then, on the upgrade side of the house, as we said, 60% of our sales were smartphones altogether. And as I said before, in January, I thought there was a major opportunity for us because our featured base as part of our postpaid base was significantly higher, and this was an area where we thought that we could make some good inroads into upgrading our feature phone base into a smartphone.

This quarter, 56% of our upgrades in total, and as you see from our release, we did about 3% a quarter, 3% a month, so it was about 9% for the quarter. So 56% of them were upgrades of feature phones or multimedia phones to our smartphones.

So when you think about that, if you look at a feature phone which has no data plan today, that's an incremental $30 of ARPU and on a multimedia, they had a $10 feature plan which now we get an incremental $20 of ARPU. So I think from that perspective, I do believe that we still have some very good inroads here from a feature phone perspective. Going forward, we still have 62% of our base that are still on feature phones.

And then on a 4G side of the house, if you look at the adds that we did, 35% of them were new to category, and when I say that, they were also feature phones who upgraded into that. Now that's part of the 56% that I talked before, but just specifically on the 4G device, 35% of them were upgrades.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, can we take the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question, and really appreciate all the color around the iPhone and the ThunderBolt, so I'm just going to ask for a bit more. If we just assume that you had a very strong launch around the iPhone, particularly to existing customers, it kind of looks like, as you exited the quarter, both devices might have been selling at about the same pace. So I'm wondering if that's a reasonable conclusion here.

And then you had mentioned how the iPhone didn't launch with full distribution, but that's expanded. Is that the same approach you are taking with your LTE devices? Or are you actually putting them in all of your channels on day one?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so, Brett, let me address a couple of those. So on the iPhone launch, we were cautious because we were not sure, obviously, of the demand that was there for the phone, and we wanted to monitor the supply and the demand so that we did not run into a backlog situation. From an HTC perspective, we are launching that across the board, so it is not a similar effect there.

Now, if you look at the iPhone, 78% of the iPhone were upgrades and 22% of those iPhones were new to our base. So if you do the math there, you can look at the iPhone dropped right down into our net adds for the quarter. And then, if you look at 4G and you add that in, 54% of our net adds were consistent with both the iPhone launch and the HTC launch. So 54% of our net adds came from those two devices alone.

So I think that from a pace perspective, we are very, very pleased with the HTC handset launch. You have seen probably some of the articles I have seen where people have tested it.

This is a true 4G device. You can put as much lipstick on 3 to make it a 4, but this is truly a 4G device with the speeds of 4G, and I think people are impressed and people will make their decision. So out of the gate, we are very happy with the volume, and I think that this will just continue as we continue to launch more 4G smartphone devices coming here in the next few weeks.

BRETT FELDMAN: Okay, so just one quick follow-up here. You're now selling the most popular 3G smartphone on the market, in the iPhone. You're selling the most popular 4G smartphone on the market. I know it's early days, but are you seeing anything meaningfully different in the way people are using the devices?

FRAN SHAMMO: Not really. I think that with the 4G speeds, obviously, people are consuming more data. That will be expected given the video speeds and some of the TV download speeds, but keep in mind, though, that the 4G network is so much more efficient than the 3G network. So even with that incremental usage on 4G, even at the same price of 3G, the profitability is higher. So, it behooves us to move as many people to 4G as we possibly can, and you will see us doing that proactively in certain markets.

So from a different standpoint, yes, they are consuming more on 4G than they are on 3G, but we expected that.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, we'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMC.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks for taking my call. So, first, I wanted to see if we can get a little more detail on some of these things. You talked about the smartphone mix picking up from 60%. Can you give us what the March smartphone mix might have been as you saw that ARPU acceleration?

FRAN SHAMMO: Phil, I don't have that detail. I just had it for the quarter.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay. And then just following up on Brett's as well, the 4G data usage, you said, is higher. Can you give us an idea of what that is?

FRAN SHAMMO: At this point we're not going to disclose the usage on 4G. It's really way too early to deal with that because, as you know, as people get an initial handset, they initially download a lot of applications, so usage tends to be higher than the normal average, and we've only been at this HTC handset for two weeks. So I think it's premature to release anything like that.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay. I'll try one more swing and then maybe I'll be out. So you talked about the iPhone being a global device when that launches. Do you anticipate that being a 4G device and sort of being at par in terms of speeds with your other 4G?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, I can't answer for Apple's product launch to be honest with you. All I know is it will be a global device. At that point I think we will have to go to Apple to find out exactly what that device will have.

JOHN DOHERTY: Nice try, Phil.

PHIL CUSICK: I tried.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

JOHN DOHERTY: Mike, we can't hear you.

OPERATOR: Please stand by.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch. Please stand by. Please stand by. Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities, your line is open.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Sorry about that. Yes, just a couple of quick questions. First, -- and then, not to beat --

FRAN SHAMMO: (multiple speakers)

MIKE MCCORMACK: Not to beat the ARPU thing to death here, but you guys have identified, obviously, some backend loading of the smartphones, and I think that's good color. But thinking about ARPU growth, can you sort of identify the offsets which might be coming in the form of voice pressure from family share roaming?

And then how should we think about data devices like tablets and sticks and cards and stuff like that, that may carry a lower overall ARPU, which could sort of have an impact on the growth rate, but obviously driving some decent adds.

And then secondly, and it might be premature, but thinking about the iPhone guidance for the year based on 11 million, the 2.2 million tracking a bit lower, not surprising given a partial quarter, but it's also the launch quarter. So just trying to figure out what your thought process is there. Obviously we're anticipating a refresh at some point during the year that obviously could boost that as well. But just some thoughts around that would be great.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, thanks, Mike. So from an ARPU perspective, from a voice ARPU perspective, we are obviously seeing a decline there, but it is a slowing decline year over year. So, yes, that is putting pressure on us but it is putting a pressure on us at a slower rate and we view that as, that will continue into the future. Also, from a voice ARPU perspective as we launch the iPhone, I guess I would be remiss to say that the call quality on the iPhone has been spectacular on the 3G CDMA network. And obviously, we think that our voice will continue to slow as we add more iPhones and people realize the quality of the voice network and the data network there. So, I think that will be fine.

From a tablet and a broadband access device perspective, there is some small dilution going on from the old price plans to the new price plans, but we don't see that as being a drag to the overall ARPU as we continue to penetrate into the tablet scenario, into the 4G MiFi devices and the usage that the MiFi devices will bring and the tiered pricing that we already have related to our data products. So I don't see that as being a major issue going forward.

And as far as the 2.2 million in the first quarter and the 11 million overall, we are sticking with our 11 million view for our guidance purposes.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, Fran. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, guys, for taking the question. Just two if I could, maybe. Fran, just starting with the debt raise recently, this past quarter, and kind of bulking up on the balance sheet, both coming out $9 billion or so, $7 billion going into cash. Obviously, we've got the Terremark deal cash going out the door, but is this cash that we put on the balance sheet really about trying to avoid the necessity of upstreaming dividends or maintaining leverage at the Verizon Wireless business? Because I did notice that you guys kind of called out that specifically in the call today that you didn't want to have to do anything on the dividend until next year, but because you are not, you had to go into the markets and raise this money and put cash on the balance sheet. And I just wondered if you could kind of talk through your thinking there.

And I think the second question if I could is just maybe more strategically thinking about the industry consolidation. I think you guys have come out as fairly neutral on AT&T's prospective acquisition of T-Mobile. With the caveat, as long as it doesn't lead towards incremental regulation of the industry. Could you talk a little bit about what kinds of regulations you think would be the kinds of regulations that would get you up off the bench to kind of come in and oppose this deal? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, thank you, David. So first on the debt side of the house, yes, we actually went out into the market because we have some debt maturities both within corporate and wireline this year that needed to be refinanced. And when we initially did it, the interest rates were so well we took advantage of the interest rates and raised it to $6.25 billion. We have about $2 billion worth of maturities coming in the back half of the year. We had a $500 million refinancing that took place in the first quarter.

We also wanted to refinance some of our CP paper, commercial paper, so we did that as well. And due to the lucrativeness of the interest rates we had, we also decided to prefund our pension plan of $400 million, both to take effect of the interest rate and the arbitrage on that. Compared to the return that that $400 million would get in the pension plan, that would help us alleviate some of our future cash flow obligations into the plan. So this really was all around just a refinancing and rebalancing of our balance sheet; and just for general other observations; and as you said, pay for the Terremark; and also to refinance the Terremark debt.

And then from an AT&T and T-Mobile merger perspective, I guess the comment I would have is we have to let that go through due process with the federal government. And we will sit and wait and see.

Obviously, we will then take a view of, if it's a market-based condition merger, we will be fine with that. If it's a regulatory merger, then we will have a harder time with it. Now, as far as what may have been a little bit off here is I'm not going to go into what types of things we may object to, but obviously we are a very strong on where we stand with net neutrality. We are very strong where we stand with data roaming, and the positions that the FCC have recently taken there.

And we will not stand by if there are certain regulations put on us that we have to deliver certain things at a fixed price that's set by a regulatory arm that has no authority over that regulation of price. So we will sit back, let it go through its due process and then we will see what happens.

DAVID BARDEN: All right, guys. Thanks.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thank you, David. One or two more questions, Brad. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. Thanks, guys. Two broader questions. Fran, on the managed services front, I know it's early in the process here, but do you find yourself bumping up against more of the traditional IT outsourcers in the market? And do you have the capabilities you need in managed services at this point, or do you need more acquisitions?

And then secondly, on the smartphone side, could you talk about ultimately what you would like to see in terms of number of suppliers on the different platforms and maybe market share platform?

And related to this, the subsidies per handset, do you think we're at peak run rates here and they can start to decline? Or do you think we will see handset subsidies on the smartphones increase for a while? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay thanks, Tim. So on the managed services side, I think that we have the portfolio of assets that we need to be very successful in this piece of the business, and I think we have shown that with some of the wins that we have publicly stated here in the past. And you're absolutely right, we are actually entering into a market where we are competing with many different players depending upon where you are in the globe.

Especially here in the US, we go up against all of the integrators and some of the other service providers, but outside the globe, we hit on a bunch of different players like Tata and Infosystems and people like that. So it depends where you are on the globe, but we think we are very well positioned with our portfolio. And we have shown this with our strategic services growth of 12.8%.

Some of the growth this quarter and the reason it jumped up was driven by our managed services business. So I think we are starting to really gain new ground here. We have proven ourselves with some of the major undertakings that we have taken with some of our announced deals with Matsui and JetBlue and others. So I think we've got a good stance, and I don't think we need to do any more major acquisitions in this portfolio.

As far as the smartphone side of the house and subsidies, I think first, we are charging a premium on the 4G smartphone, so the subsidy obviously there is less than others. But we'll have to see how the market goes, and I would assume that this market will mature the -- similar that a feature phone market matured over the years where as more players become into the marketplace and we have new entrants like maybe a Huawei down the road, there will be -- put pressure on the other manufacturers to get more efficient and reduce price, and then that will help our subsidy go. So I think the maturity of the market and the ecosystem will eventually take care of itself.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Tim. Brad, last question, please.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the question. So, one question, AT&T gave, as one of the -- or two of the justifications for the deal, getting access to a lot more spectrum and increasing their cell site density quickly. I think after this transaction, they're going to have significant -- you know, 50 megahertz or so more spectrum than you, and then cell site density, which is 25% to 30% more dense than yours as well.

Can you talk about how you see your spectrum needs evolving over the course of the next three to five years? And what you think you need to do from a cell site density perspective to keep up with the rapidly growing data demand that you're seeing? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Jonathan. As we said before, we think we are in a very good spectrum position. We think we have the spectrum we need, and are in a good position until about the year 2015 at this point. And we will continue to keep our eyes open to see where we need to buy spectrum or secure spectrum. But right now we are in a very, very good position. I'm not going to speak to the competitor. You can ask those questions as to why they did this and why they needed the spectrum, but I think we're in a very good position.

JOHN DOHERTY: All right. Thanks, Fran. Thanks to all of the participants that joined us this morning. And with that, Brad, let me hand it back to you to complete the call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc | belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | ibrdbi : Broadband Infrastructure | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccrly : Customer Retention/Loyalty | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110505e74l002jq
  


 HD
 Q2  2011 Apple Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,597 words
   PD
20 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Inc. second-quarter fiscal-year 2011 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I will now turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, IR, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Speaking today is Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by Apple COO Tim Cook and Treasurer Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts.

Please note that some of the information you will hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2010, the Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2011, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release.

Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP FINANCE, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us.

We are very pleased to report the highest March quarter revenue and earnings in Apple's history. We set a new all-time quarterly record for iPhone sales and a new March quarter record for Mac sales, and we're thrilled with the momentum for iPad.

Revenue for the quarter was $24.7 billion, which was $11.2 billion over the prior March quarter's results, and represents the largest year-over-year quarterly revenue growth we've ever generated. This tremendous increase of 83% was fueled by, primarily, by record iPhone sales, very robust demand for iPads, and strong growth in Mac sales. Operating margin was an all-time high of almost $7.9 billion, representing 31.9% of revenue. Net income was almost $6 billion. This represented 95% growth over the year-ago quarter's earnings and translated to earnings per share of $6.40.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with our Mac products and services. We established a new March quarter record with sales of 3.76 million Macs, representing 28% growth over the year-ago quarter. We are extremely pleased with this very strong growth, particularly given IDC's most recently published estimate of a 3% contraction for the PC market overall. This result makes the March quarter the 20th consecutive quarter that we've outperformed the PC market.

We experienced strong Mac sales growth in each of our operating segments, most notably in the Asia-Pacific segment where Mac sales increased 76% year over year.

The growth in Mac sales was fueled primarily by the continued great popularity of the MacBook Air, which was updated in the December quarter, as well as very strong sales of MacBook Pro. We updated the entire MacBook Pro family during the March quarter with the next-generation processors and graphics, high-speed Thunderbolt I/O technology, and the new FaceTime HD camera. The new MacBook Pro lineup offers twice the speed of the previous generation, and customer response has been excellent.

We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

During the quarter, we released the developer preview of Mac OS X Lion, which takes some of the best ideas from the iPad and brings them back to the Mac. Lion features Mission Control, an innovative new view of everything running on a Mac; Launchpad, a new home for all your Mac apps; full-screen apps that use the entire Mac display; and new multi-touch gestures. Lion is scheduled to ship to customers this summer, and we look forward to showing more of its great features at our developers' conference in June.

Moving to our music products, we sold 9 million iPods, compared to 10.9 million in the year-ago quarter. Though lower year over year, total iPod sales were ahead of our expectations with iPod Touch continuing to account for over half of all iPods sold.

IPod's share of the U.S. market for MP3 players remains at over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by NPD, and iPod continued to be the top-selling MP3 player in most countries we track, based on the latest data published by GFK.

We ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory.

The iTunes store turned in its best quarter ever, with revenue of almost $1.4 billion thanks to record revenue from music, video, iOS apps, and books. We were very pleased to begin offering the full catalog of 17,000 e-books from Random House on the iBookstore during the March quarter. The iBookstore now includes e-books from more than 2,500 publishers in over 20 categories, and customers have downloaded over 100 million books.

I'd now like to turn to the iPhone. We were thrilled to have sold a record 18.6 million iPhones, compared to 8.8 million in the previous March quarter. This represents 113% year-over-year growth, which is significantly ahead of IDC's latest published estimate of 74% growth for the global smartphone market overall in the March quarter. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessories sales was $12.3 billion during the quarter, compared to $5.45 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 126%.

We continue to experience very strong year-over-year iPhone sales growth in all of our operating segments, with sales in both the Americas and Asia-Pacific regions more than doubling year over year. We were able to make a significant increase in our capacity once again, allowing us to expand distribution and get much-needed supply to our channel partners.

We were very pleased to begin selling iPhones on the Verizon network in the U.S. in the March quarter, and we were also happy to add SK Telecom in Korea, as well as Saudi Telecom in Saudi Arabia. Including some carrier consolidation, we ended the quarter with iPhone distribution through 186 carriers in 90 countries.

We ended the quarter with about 5.2 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 1.7 million to support new carrier launches and existing channel partners. This placed us within our target range of four to six weeks of iPhone channel inventory.

IPhone is continuing to see strong growth within the enterprise segment. Today, 88% of the Fortune 500 are testing or deploying iPhone. With strong employee demand and custom app development fueling adoption, we are seeing great scale of iPhone deployments in businesses worldwide. In fact, hundreds of private and public companies worldwide are supporting thousands of iPhones on their corporate networks. Some examples include Cisco, Prudential, Boston Scientific, General Motors, American Airlines, Deloitte, YUM! Brands, and Xerox.

Turning to iPad, we continue to be thrilled with its momentum. We sold 4.7 million iPads during the March quarter, launching iPad 2 in the U.S. on March 11 and in 25 additional countries on March 25. Customer enthusiasm has been tremendous for iPad 2, and we are working hard to get it into the hands of customers as quickly as possible. Including both the original iPad and iPad 2, we had distribution in 59 countries by the end of the March quarter.

Given the very strong customer demand, and despite the increased geographic distribution, iPad channel inventory declined by 400,000 from the beginning of the quarter, implying sellthrough of about 5.1 million. This resulted in ending channel inventory of below 850,000, which was below our target range of four to six weeks. We sold every iPad 2 that we could make during the quarter, and would've liked to end the quarter with more channel inventory.

Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad accessories during the quarter was $2.8 billion.

Employee demand for iPad in the corporate environment remains strong, and CIOs continue to embrace iPad in an unprecedented rate. In just over a year since its debut, 75% of the Fortune 500 are testing or deploying iPad within their enterprises. Some recent examples of enterprises that are deploying iPad include Fortune 500 companies such as Xerox, AutoNation, YUM! Brands, ADP, Boston Scientific, Estee Lauder, Disney, Stryker, Prudential Financial, Rite Aid, and USAA.

Combining iPhone, iPad, and iPod Touch, we reached just under 189 million cumulative iOS device sales through the end of the March quarter.

In March, we introduced iOS 4.3 with new features, including faster Safari mobile browsing performance with the Java Nitro Script engine, iTunes home sharing, enhancements to airplay, and the personal hotspot feature for sharing an iPhone 4's cellular data connection over WiFi.

The App Store continues to be incredibly successful with over 350,000 apps available and well over 10 billion downloads to date. In February, we announced a new subscription service available to all publishers of content-based apps, including magazines, newspapers, video, and music. Publishers set the price and length of subscription, and customers select the subscription and length they want with one click.

It was also a great pleasure to announce in March that we have made more than $2 billion in payments to developers since opening the App Store.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. We are approaching the retail stores' 10th anniversary on May 19, and we are on the verge of achieving a major milestone. In the next few days, we will be thrilled to welcome our 1 billionth visitor. Store traffic continues to be amazingly strong, and in the March quarter, we hosted a record 71.1 million visitors in our stores, compared to 47 million visitors in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 51%.

Retail revenue was $3.19 billion, compared to $1.68 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 90%. Capitalizing on the February MacBook Pro update, the stores delivered another record Mac quarter, selling 797,000 Macs, compared to 606,000 Macs in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 32%. And about half the Macs sold in our stores during the March quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before.

To further enrich our Apple retail customer experience, we recently launched a program called Personal Setup. When customers buy a Mac, iPad, iPhone, or iPod Touch, our teams help the customer set up the product in the store so that they are up and running before they leave. Personal Setup includes the customers' e-mail, contacts, calendar, applications, and more. In the March quarter, our stores set up over 1 million products.

We operated 323 stores during the quarter. Average revenue per store was $9.9 million, compared to $5.9 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 67%.

International retail store sales remained strong with our average international store volume exceeding our very productive average U.S. store volume. Retail segment margin more than doubled year over year to $807 million, compared to $373 million in the year-ago quarter. We anticipate opening 40 new stores in fiscal 2011, nearly three-quarters of which will be outside the United States, including our fifth store in China.

Total Company gross margin was 41.4%, which was 290 basis points higher than our guidance. More than half of this difference came from better product mix than planned, particularly higher iPhone sales. The remainder was largely the result of leverage on the higher revenue and lower than expected commodity, service, and other costs.

Operating expenses were $2.34 billion, and included $236 million of stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $26 million, and the tax rate for the quarter was 24.2%, below our guidance of 25.5% due to changes in our full-year forecast of foreign earnings, R&D tax credit, and state taxes.

Turning to cash, our cash plus short-term and long-term marketable securities totaled $65.8 billion at the end of the March quarter, compared to $59.7 billion at the end of the December quarter, a sequential increase of $6.1 billion. Cash flow from operations was $6.2 billion, an increase of 157% year over year. The increase in cash is net of approximately $900 million in combined pre-payments and capital expenditures related to the strategic supplier agreement that we referred to in our last quarterly call.

As we move into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be about $23 billion, compared to $15.7 billion in the June quarter last year. We expect gross margin to be about 38%, reflecting approximately $55 million related to stock-based compensation expense.

We expect OpEx to be about $2.5 billion, including about $255 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OI&E to be about $70 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 25%. We are targeting EPS of about $5.03.

In closing, we are thrilled with the results and accomplishments of our record March quarter. We are extremely pleased with customer response to iPad 2 and are working hard to get it into the hands of customers as fast as we can. We remain very confident in our strategy and are very excited about our new product pipeline.

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter. We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Can you comment, Peter, on whether or not you're seeing any supply chain disruptions from the recent earthquake in Japan? And if so, how should we think about that in terms of that being factored into your guidance?

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Bill, this is Tim. Let me sort of step back and talk about Japan in general, and sort of try to hit all of your questions in advance.

First of all, this is an incredible tragedy, and our hearts go out to everyone involved. Apple as a Company has a very long history and has many strong ties to the people in Japan, and we're very, very saddened by the situation. And we've undertaken various actions to assist in the relief effort. And the economic impact that we'll address today pales in comparison to the human impact.

Regarding our business in Japan, we had some revenue impact in Q2, but it was not material to Apple's consolidated results. We believe revenues will be approximately $200 million less in Q3, and this has been factored into the guidance that Peter provided you earlier in his comments.

Regarding our global supply chain, as a result of outstanding teamwork and unprecedented resilience of our partners, we did not have any supply or cost impact in our fiscal Q2 as a result of the tragedy, and we currently do not anticipate any material supplier cost impact in our fiscal Q3. To provide a bit more color on this, we source hundreds, literally hundreds, of items from Japan, and they range from components such as LCDs, optical drives, NAND flash and DRAM, to base materials such as resins, coatings, and foil that are part of the production process of several layers back in the supply chain.

The earthquake and subsequent tsunami and the associated nuclear crisis caused disruption for many of these suppliers. And many unaffected suppliers have been impacted by power interruptions.

But since the disaster, Apple employees have literally been working around the clock with our supplier partners in Japan and have been able to implement a number of contingency plans. Our preference from the beginning of this tragedy has been to remain with our long-term partners in Japan, and I have to say they have displayed an incredible resilience that I've personally never seen before in the aftermath of this disaster. So, while we do not anticipate -- currently anticipate any material impact to our component supply or costs in our fiscal Q3, we do need to caution everyone that this situation remains unpredictable given recent aftershocks, the uncertainty about the nuclear plant, and potential power interruptions.

Further, there are some supply risks that are beyond the current quarter. And although we know of no issue today that we view as unsolvable, the situation is still uncertain and there's obviously no guarantees. For this reason, it's difficult to predict whether the issues created by the tragedy would impact revenues beyond Q3. However, I'll be happy to address Q4 on our next call in July.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, great. That was very helpful. I guess digging into another area of supply, looking at your iPad 2 constraints since launch in March, can you give us some color on where the constraints lie and how you're doing in terms of getting supply back in line with demand?

TIM COOK: Well, the demand on iPad 2 has been staggering. And we -- we are still amazed at it. We are still heavily backlogged not only at the end of the quarter, but also up to date.

However, I can tell you that I'm extremely pleased with the progress of the manufacturing ramp, and we were so confident that we rolled out 25 additional countries at the end of last month, and we are shipping to an additional 13 countries next week, and we are planning to add even more countries through the quarter. So I'm very confident that we can produce a very large number of iPads for the quarter.

OPERATOR: Richard Gardner, Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I was just hoping to get a little bit more color on what drove the iPhone's strength in the quarter. If you could, by region or carrier. You mentioned that you added SK Telecom, and I'm not sure if shipments there were material during the quarter.

And then, Peter, the follow-up to that, I guess, is how do we think about iPhone seasonality going into the June quarter, given all of the moving parts and we have a full quarter of Verizon in the June quarter. You've got some potential carrier expansion benefit, and yet you have a product refresh hopefully coming mid-year. So I was hoping you could help us think about that a little bit for the June quarter. Thanks.

TIM COOK: It's Tim. In terms of iPhone, we did actually very well everywhere.

I'd call out two places that -- where it was just off the charts. The U.S. grew 155% year over year. Obviously adding Verizon and beginning to offer iPhone to their enormous customer base was key in that. However, as you heard from AT&T's announcement this morning, AT&T did extremely well during the quarter. So the U.S. as a geography grew at 155%, and that's about three times IDC's forecast of growth for the smartphone market, which was about 48%.

Also, we continued to be on a tear in China. Greater China saw iPhone sales being up over three times, about -- almost 250%. And this catapulted revenue for the first half or first fiscal half in greater China to just under $5 billion, which is up almost four times year over year. And so, we are extremely happy with how we're doing in China.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rich, to hit the second part of your question, as I commented in my prepared remarks, we were able to increase the iPhone channel inventory by just over 1.7 million units in the March quarter, and we ended within our target four- to six-week range of inventory. In terms of the June quarter, I would expect to see a significant year-over-year increase in sales.

RICHARD GARDNER: Any comment on the sequential, Peter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. I think I'll leave it at year over year. I would expect this to be up significantly.

OPERATOR: Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just following on the iPhone discussion, what, if anything, did you learn about the price elasticity curve for the iPhone with the $49 3GS price point in the market this quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Katie, it was very popular. It did very, very well.

KATY HUBERTY: And then, also from the perspective of some positive feedback on LTE's phones that are out from your competitors, how do you think about the maturity of those networks and Apple's sense of urgency to get products out for those faster networks, and what, if any, bottlenecks exist?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I was asked this question or a similar question when we launched the iPhone with Verizon, and what I said then and I still see it as being the case today, and I think you can see this in the products that have been shipped, is that the first generation of LTE chipsets force a lot of design compromises with the handset, and some of those we are just not willing to make.

And so, we are extremely happy with the iPhone 4 and the iPhone 3GS, and hitting 18.6 million units was a -- something much larger than we thought we could do this quarter, and we are happy to have gotten it out to three more large carriers.

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. Could you talk a bit about the international penetration of Macs? Perhaps, Tim, comparing your adoption curve in the U.S. to where we are internationally, and if there is any difference in terms of the type of computers that your customers are purchasing internationally.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, if you look at it, Shannon, the growth on the Mac is -- has been enormous in Asia. The last quarter, we were up 76% in Asia Pacific.

And yes, this is many multiples of the growth that that region is seeing for the market. I believe the IDC forecast is around 6%. And so, we are seeing enormous growth in the Mac there. Japan also did quite well on the Mac for the quarter.

And the U.S. had a surprisingly strong quarter in the Mac, being up around -- Americas was up 25%. The U.S. was up just slightly higher than that.

Our market share is obviously less outside the U.S. in most places than it is in the U.S.. And so, I think that speaks very, very well to the opportunity that the Mac has. We have now had 20 quarters in a row where we've outgrown the PC market, and the momentum is still there, and we seem to be the only guys that are really focused on building innovative products in that space.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you. Has there been any difference between sort of portable versus desktop purchases internationally, or is it sort of trending in line with what you've seen in the U.S.?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: There are several of the international countries that are extremely portable focused. And you can see that we had enormous growth in our portables for the quarter.

However, part of that is that we had a launch of the new MacBook Pro line, but honestly I see popularity in both the iMac and the portable factor and believe there is a great future for both of them.

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman, Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Peter, could you talk a little bit about the forces impacting your sequential decline in gross margins by, call it, 350 basis points? What are the forces that you want to call out and things that we should be thinking about? Thank you.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Sequential decline is primarily being driven by a higher mix of iPad sales, which, as you know, we priced very aggressively to capitalize on our first-mover advantage.

Additionally, we would expect to lose some leverage from the lower sequential revenue. And as I pointed out in my prepared remarks a moment ago, the iPhone channel inventory increased by 1.7 million units in the March quarter. It exited within our four- to six-week range. Conversely, the iPad channel inventory fell by 400,000 units, and we were below our four- to six-week inventory range. So, those are the forces I would highlight.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, and then, perhaps one for Tim on my follow-up. Related to Shannon's question, how are you seeing different opportunities in the large enterprises with your MacBook in traditional markets of U.S. and western Europe, given the seemingly greater receptiveness towards your iPhones and what will be the tablets, I think? In other words, is that opening doors to go ahead and get the Macs in with CIOs?

TIM COOK: It clearly seems to be creating a halo effect for the Mac, and I think that's one reason we see the growth that we are seeing on the Mac.

It's amazing when you see the 28% year over year versus the worldwide market on -- in PCs contracting by three points. It's an astonishing delta.

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Can you talk about the ASP trends for the iPad and the iPhone? What were they in the quarter? And are there any dynamics that would change that as we move throughout the year, or at least into the June quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. This is Peter. For competitive reasons, I don't want to provide any more precise ASPs for either of these products. We just don't want to help our competitors.

But on the data summary, you know, we provide you both the iPhone and iPad units that we ship, and revenues, which include the accessories, so you can make your own estimates.

BEN REITZES: Okay. And I guess my other question was with regard to the iPad constraints. When do you think that you'll be to equilibrium or have channel inventory where you need it to be? You were able to say that you increased production a lot for the iPhone. When can you say at least the same thing for the iPad where you feel like you've alleviated your shortage?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, what I would say to this is that I'm confident we're going to produce a very large number for the quarter. Whether that will be enough to meet demand, I don't know. Demand has been staggering, and I'm not going to predict when supply and demand will come into balance. I can only be confident on the supply side.

OPERATOR: Scott Craig, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

SCOTT CRAIG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Tim, can you maybe talk a little bit about the CDMA phone, and maybe specifically which new markets you are looking at entering with CDMA over the next couple of quarters?

And then, with regards to the facility investments, can you maybe talk about the magnitude of spending you expect as you go through the year on -- with the partners, I mean, sort of investments both on a CapEx side that they are making, as well as overall investments? Thanks.

TIM COOK: On the carrier side, I don't want to get into specifics about the CDMA or GSM, for that matter, but we are constantly looking at where we should bring on incremental partners.

And you know, as we have said earlier, we brought on three this quarter, three large ones, with Verizon, SKT, and Saudi Telecom. That's on top of the ones that we brought on in December where we added O2 and Vodafone in Germany. And so, we are constantly looking and adding where it makes sense, and you can keep confidence that we'll continue to do that.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Scott, on your capital question, a couple of updates. We expect to spend in our fiscal 2011 about $5.7 billion in capital expenditures. That's unchanged from what we told you last quarter.

We expect about $700 million of that to be in our retail area and $5 billion outside of retail. Some of the bigger areas outside of retail, and the biggest is in the operations area. We talked about on the last call arrangements we had done with three suppliers. We expect to spend about $3.5 billion during fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 with those three suppliers on those deals in the form of prepayments and capital expenditures, and as I said in my prepared comments, we expected $900 million of that in the March quarter. We expect to spend the remainder across fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012.

OPERATOR: Mike Abramsky, RBC Capital Markets.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: It may not be a perfect analogy, but just wondering with the rise of Android what might be some of the similarities and differences you see versus the rise of Windows PCs in the 1990s versus Mac, and I'm just wondering if you think in the U.S. particularly Android could become a possible headwind to the -- to your U.S. smartphone business, and how do you maintain such incredible growth in the face of that shift?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think -- you know, Mike, I just saw yesterday -- it's interesting you should point out the U.S.. The comScore data released yesterday reported that the iOS test platform outreaches Android by 59% in the U.S., and so this is an enormous percentage.

On a worldwide basis, we are -- we just did 18.6 million iPhones, which is up 113%, which is materially faster than the market rate of growth. And we launched the iPad 2 and sold every one of them that we could make. As we've said before, we're gaining traction in enterprise on both iPhone and iPad with astonishing 88% and 75%, respectively, of the Fortune 500 companies deploying or testing these. We've got the largest app store with over 350,000 apps for iPhone and over 65,000 iPad-specific apps on iOS, versus what appears to be fewer than 100 on Android.

And so, we feel very, very good about where we are and we feel great about our future product plan. We've also paid over $2 billion to developers, and we've had well over 10 billion applications downloaded, and so our business proposition is very, very strong.

And as we've said before, we continue to believe, and even more and more every day, that iPhone's integrated approach is materially better than Android's fragmented approach where you have multiple OSes on multiple devices with different screen resolutions and multiple app stores with different rules, payment methods, and update strategies. I think the user appreciates that Apple can take full responsibility for their experience, whereas the fragmented approach turns the customer into a systems integrator, and few customers that I know want to be a systems integrator.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon, and congratulations. A question first on the iPhone. Demand, obviously, has been phenomenal. And if we look down the road at the opportunity in the post- versus the prepaid markets, are there any considerations that you can share in terms of the you way in terms of price or subsidies or growing market share in this large prepaid market?

TIM COOK: Gene, it's Tim. Our focus has very much been on China. We wanted to understand that market and understand the levers there.

And you know, as I said before, we are -- iPhone sales were up over three times during the quarter. And in the first half, we did over five -- just slightly under $5 billion in greater China in revenue, which you know is about 10% of Apple, to put it in perspective. And it wasn't but a couple of years ago that that number would've been less than 2%, and so, it's a sea change, and that's certainly not a -- what I would call a classic postpaid market, by any means of the imagination.

So we have some ideas about other countries as well. I'm not in a position that I want to share those today, but we purposely put the bulk of our emphasis from an emerging-market point of view on China to really learn, and then we're going to take that learning to other markets.

GENE MUNSTER: Do you know if China, if more than half -- do you know if more than half of China is prepaid?

TIM COOK: I think considerably more than half of China's prepaid, Gene. I think the first digit would start with a nine.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay, very good, and then, separately, it was great to see Steve attending the iPad 2 event, and since going on medical leave, how closely has he stayed involved with the Company's decisions and do you have any idea when he might return?

TIM COOK: He is still on medical leave, as you say. But we do see him on a regular basis. And as we've previously said, he continues to be involved in major strategic decisions, and I know he wants to be back full time as soon as he can.

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I wanted to revisit the supply question on both iPhone and iPad. So last quarter, you were chasing iPhone demand, and you said you were going to work as hard as possible to try and make sure you catch up with your demand, and given your inventory build, it sounds like you're comfortable and you've gotten there.

On the iPad side, it's a little less clear to me. You made, I guess, over 7 million iPads in last quarter, in fiscal Q1. This quarter, including the inventory drawdown, maybe there were 5.1 million made. So was this -- you've proven that you have the capacity or the relationships to build a lot more. Was this simply a forecasting error on the iPad side, and can you comment about linearity of demand, and why you couldn't have kept production at a similar rate to the prior quarter and been able to fulfill a lot more?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me mention a few things for you to consider, Toni. First off, product transitions are never simple, and as you can probably appreciate, we are in a position that we have to call them for many, many weeks in advance, in terms of how many of the current product we want to produce and the dates at which we will announce the new product.

We drew the channel down on the current product, or the original iPad, I should say, by 570,000 units during the quarter, and we added at the end of the quarter 170,000 of the new iPad 2s, although most of that was in transit at the end of the quarter. And so the net reduction was 400,000, and so our sellthrough was above 5 million for the quarter. And again, this has to be planned quite a ways into the future.

I think the key point here is -- also the dates, just to remind you. We sent out an invitation to the event toward the end of February. We had the event in early March. We placed the unit on sale in the United States on March 11, and our quarter ended about two weeks thereafter. And so, there was some expectation of a new product, and we would've obviously factored that into our thinking about the product transition as we planned the number of the original unit to build.

And so, I think the key point here is that I am extremely pleased with the progress that we were making on the manufacturing ramp. We have gotten off to a materially better start and produced a lot more units than we did on the original ramp of the first iPad. And we're so confident with our ability to supply that we've already put on 25 additional countries at the end of March, and will be placing on 13 more next week, and we'll do even more as we step through the quarter.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay, that's helpful. If I could turn to another topic, which is just your overall guidance for next quarter on the revenue and EPS side, if I look back at your last eight quarters, Q2 to Q3 last eight years, seven of the eight you've been flat to up in revenues and eight out of eight you've been up in EPS sequentially from Q2 to Q3. On both those metrics, you're providing guidance that is dramatically down double digits.

Can you comment on forces at work? Obviously, you are typically pretty conservative in your guidance, but what are the things that are kind of underpinning those, directionally, those assumptions, particularly since you're pointing to a dramatic increase in iPads?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Toni, it's Peter. Let me start with topline. I would highlight two things. First of all, our sequential revenue guidance of $23 million is for a 7% decline, and it had been up in prior years, and two things to point out.

First of all, in our most recent March quarter, we were able to increase the iPhone channel inventory by 1.7 million units, and within our target range. And that had not occurred in any of the prior years.

Second, last year we launched the iPad in the year-ago June quarter, and it was a fabulous launch, contributing $2.2 billion in revenue without a comparison to the prior March quarter, and we obviously have that comparison this year. On a year-over-year basis, I am very pleased to be providing revenue guidance for growth of 46% year over year and EPS growing almost as quickly at 43%.

OPERATOR: Chris Whitmore, Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just a follow-up on the iPad question. Can you give us a split of iPad 2 versus iPad 1 as a percentage of the 5 million you shipped in the March quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We purposely aren't giving that because we don't want to help out any of our competition. But I would tell you I wish we could have produced a lot more iPad 2s because there were certainly a lot of people waiting for them.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Secondly, to follow up on the sequential revenue guidance question, can you provide any color what you expect for Macs, particularly as we enter the educational buying season? Have you seen any pressure on school budgets that is creating a little caution with respect to your Mac business?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: It's a difficult funding environment for schools here in the U.S.. We don't see any evidence of share loss, and Macs are very popular in schools and iPads are proving to be as well. On a year-over-year basis, we would expect to see a sequential -- I'm sorry, a year-over-year very significant increase in Mac sales and are very confident about the product line as we head into the back-to-school season.

TIM COOK: One thing I would add to that, and this was surprising to me and I think to several people here, is K-12 is sort of even more conservative than enterprise on adopting new technology. And last quarter, we were about a one-to-one ratio of iPads to Macs, which is, I think, very -- is amazing with the short life of the iPad and really demonstrates what kind of opportunity there probably is there.

OPERATOR: Brian Blair, Wedge Partners.

BRIAN BLAIR, ANALYST, WEDGE PARTNERS: Thank you. For the last several years, we've seen a new iPhone in June and we've seen new iPod models in September. Can you maybe just share some of your views on how you have historically viewed that one-year time horizon for new products, and maybe talk about what might cause that kind of a timeline to change?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You know, we don't -- we never comment on unannounced products. So, I don't have anything to share from that perspective.

BRIAN BLAIR: And then, can you -- you've touched on it a little bit, but can you maybe give some updated thoughts on how you view the supply/demand balance right now for the iPhone? You've talked a bit about it with iPad, but one of the things that's really stuck out to me in the last few quarters is just that demand has been so great globally, especially as you've added new carriers, that you still haven't met demand for the iPhone. Can you maybe just give some updated thoughts on that?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, that's a good question. We -- by the end of the quarter, we were in supply/demand balance in almost all of our major markets. And I would say as of today, we are in supply/demand balance virtually everywhere. The other products, the Mac is in supply/demand balance and the iPod is in supply/demand balance and the iPad has the mother of all backlogs that we are working very, very hard to get out to customers as quickly as we can.

OPERATOR: Andy Hargreaves, Pacific Crest.

ANDY HARGREAVES, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Can we just go back to the supply stuff real quick? Can you clarify, would it require some kind of new disruption to cause problems beyond fiscal Q3, or were your comments just that we could kind of run low on inventory, and if production doesn't get back to full capacity, there could be issues later (multiple speakers)

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sorry, I wasn't trying to be unclear. I'm saying that as of today, we currently do not anticipate any material supply, or cost impact, as far as that goes, in our fiscal Q3. That's the quarter that we're in now that ends in June.

Beyond June, there are risks, but there is no issue that we are aware of today that we view as unsolvable. However, new things could happen, and you know, I'm sure you've been paying attention in the news, there's aftershocks, there's still uncertainty about the nuclear plant, there's power interruptions. If that stayed at the level it is today, I'm not as worried. I would worry if something happened and took a turn for the worst. And obviously, I can't predict that and certainly hope that it does not occur.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay, that's really helpful. Thanks. And then, just on the iPhone, you talked a lot about the number of new Mac customers every quarter. Can you give us any help on what the mix is of replacement sales versus new customers, or what your total user base is there?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You know, it's a number that we haven't given out before. And so, it's a number that we hold tight to the vest.

OPERATOR: Shaw Wu, Sterne, Agee.

SHAW WU, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH, INC.: Just two quick ones. Just back on components. It seems, if you look at other vendors and spot pricing, component pricing has actually been increasing. I just wanted a little more color why Apple has been able to beat that. I know you're a very well-run company, obviously. Just a little more color on that.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, it's a good question, Shaw. Certainly, spot markets have spiked. This is particularly true if you follow the NAND flash and the DRAM markets.

However, we do not typically buy in the spot market. And so, for that reason, we see very minimal impact. Beyond Q3, I'm saying I'm not sure because it's tough to see that far, but for Q3, we feel very good. Companies that buy on the spot market would obviously be seeing something extremely differently than we would.

SHAW WU: Thanks for the color on that, and then, just on the iPad, in terms of the selling model, does it make sense or is there interest in terms of having it subsidized by service providers at some point?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The iPad today is subsidized in a few markets. It is subsidized in Korea if people sign a 24-month contract. It's subsidized in Japan with a 24-month contract, and a couple of European countries.

But the vast majority of people that are using the iPad on 3G are doing so on a pay-as-you-go plan, a no-commitment plan, and so, yes, carriers can do that, but I think the -- many customers prefer the pay-as-you-go plan.

SHAW WU: Thanks, and great quarter.

OPERATOR: Maynard Um, UBS.

MAYNARD UM, ANALYST, UBS: Two questions. Last year, when you gave gross margin guidance for the fiscal third quarter, I think you -- one thing you mentioned was a new product transition that would impact the gross margins. Just curious if that's also a factor. You didn't mention that.

And then, secondly, if you could just talk a little bit about the suit against Samsung. I'm just wondering how that might impact anything on your component supply relationship. Thanks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll take your gross margin question. It's Peter. It's hard for us to comment on gross margin changes year over year because we are in different product cycles, commodity environments, different mixes, and other factors.

So I prefer just to talk about it sequentially, and I gave you, really, the biggest drivers of the change that we see. We expect to have a sequential increase in terms of our mix of iPad sales, and also expect our revenues to be down sequentially a little bit and to loosen leverage. So those are the factors that I think are important on a sequential basis for gross margin.

TIM COOK: And on your question on Samsung, we are Samsung's largest customer, and Samsung is a very valued component supplier to us, and I expect the strong relationship will continue.

Separately from this, we felt the mobile communication division of Samsung had crossed the line, and after trying for some time to work the issue, we decided we needed to rely on the courts.

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, good afternoon. Tim, you mentioned earlier about the success of the iTunes here. Can you talk a little philosophically about what [will be] the next to really optimize that platform in terms of cloud-like capabilities?

And then, Peter, the question for you is really around the OpEx. How should we think about OpEx? Does your guidance already imply that you will have to increase some SNM employees to serve this greater region enterprises? Or is that already kind of in the model?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll take both of your questions. We don't talk about what we'll do in the future. So I'm quite limited to what we can say about the future of the iTunes.

We operate the most popular store in the world, giving customers a fabulous experience. We have the largest library, and it has provided more content to more customers than anybody. We're very confident about what we're doing and what we will do in the future. I can't take it beyond there.

In terms of OpEx, we provided guidance for the June quarter of about $2.5 billion, and that includes our thinking for the investments that we are going to make in the quarter for the business. We are investing in engineering. In our retail stores, we are investing in our indirect distribution, which would include covering the enterprise, and the infrastructure investments that we need to support the terrific growth that you've seen from the Company. I'm glad that we are making good investments that are paying off, but also providing -- continuing to provide leverage in the model.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark.

A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks. It's a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on apple.com/investor, and via telephone, and the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. Confirmation code is 821-8881. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5 PM Pacific time today.

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks, again, for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110504e74k0043b
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,242 words
   PD
18 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to this Apple, Inc. first-quarter fiscal year 2011 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation, those regarding revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share and future products.

   TD
Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2010 and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC this afternoon, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.

With that I would like to turn the call over to Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are very pleased to report the outstanding results of our December quarter. The performance of our business was extremely strong as we sold more Macs, iPhones and iPads than in any previous quarter in Apple's history, and as a result, we are thrilled to announce all-time record quarterly revenue and earnings.

Revenue for the quarter was $26.7 billion, an increase of more than $11 billion over the prior December quarter's results, representing growth of 71%. The robust revenue growth was fueled by record iPhone, iPad and Mac sales.

Operating margin was over $7.8 billion, representing 29.3% of revenue. Net income was $6 billion, which exceeded our previous quarterly earnings record set in the September quarter by $1.7 billion and represented 78% growth over the year ago quarter's earnings. These results translated to earnings per share of $6.43.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I would like to begin with our Mac products and services. We established a new quarterly record with sales of 4.13 million Macs, representing 23% growth over the year ago quarter. That is almost 8 times IDC's most recently published estimate of 3% growth for the PC market.

We experienced strong sales growth in each of our geographic segments, with over 50% growth in both the Asia-Pacific region and Japan. The growth was fueled primarily by strong demand for the new MacBook Air, which was launched in October, as well as continued strong sales of MacBook Pro.

Customers love the new thin and light unibody design of the MacBook Air, and the impressive responsiveness and reliability of its solid-state storage. While MacBook Pro continues to provide customers tremendous speed and high-performance graphics at an excellent value.

We ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

We opened the Mac App Store on January 6, bringing what we have learned from iOS apps to Mac users to make discovering, installing and updating apps easier than ever. The Mac App Store is available in 90 countries, and features more than 1,000 free and paid apps in categories like education, games, graphics and design, lifestyle, productivity and utilities. We have been very pleased with customer response with over 1 million downloads on the first day alone.

Moving to our Mac products -- the moving to our music products, we sold 19.4 million iPods compared to 21 million in the year ago quarter. We experienced continued strong sales of iPod touch, which grew 27% year-over-year and accounted for over 50% of all iPods sold during the quarter.

IPod's share of the US market for MP3 players remains at over 70% based on the latest monthly data published by MPD, and iPod continued to be the top selling MP3s player in most countries we track based on the latest data published by GfK. We ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPod channel inventory.

The iTunes Store generated another strong quarter with revenue exceeding $1.1 billion thanks to strong sales of music, video and apps. We were extremely pleased to bring the legendary music of the Beatles to iTunes during the quarter and to introduce movies to the iTunes Store in Japan. And as we announced a few weeks ago, iTunes users are now renting and purchasing over 400,000 TV episodes and 150,000 movies per day.

I would now like to turn to iPhone. We were thrilled to have sold 16.2 million iPhones compared to 8.7 million in the previous December quarter. This represents 86% year-over-year growth compared to IDC's latest published estimate of 70% growth in the global smartphone market overall in the December quarter.

Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessory sales was $10.47 billion during the quarter, compared to $5.58 billion in the year ago quarter, an increase of 88%. The sales value of iPhones alone was over $10.1 billion, which yields an ASP of about $625.

At the end of December quarter we had iPhone distribution through 185 carriers in 90 countries. We continue to experience very strong year-over-year growth in all of our segments, with sales in the Asia-Pacific region and Japan both more than doubling year-over-year.

Enterprise customers continue to embrace iPhone, with 88 of the Fortune 100 companies and also 60% of the Financial Times Europe 100 companies now testing or deploying iPhone. Strong employee demand and custom app development are fueling deployments within the corporate sector.

Enterprise CIOs continue to add iPhone to their approved device list worldwide. Most recently Fortune 500s like Wells Fargo, Archers Daniel Midlands, DuPont, Staples, Starbucks and Genworth Financial, and Global 500 accounts such as Nissan Motor, BBVA, Standard Chartered Group and [Denun] have made iPhone available to their employees.

We ended the quarter with about 3.5 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 250,000. We continue to have a sizable backlog and believe we could have sold even more iPhones if we had been able to supply them.

And we are thrilled to begin working with Verizon next month to offer iPhone 4 to its more than 93 million customers, as well as to new customers who want iPhone 4 on Verizon.

Turning to iPads, we continue to be thrilled with its momentum and customer interest. We sold 7.3 million iPads, a sequential increase of over 3 million, with distribution in 46 countries by the end of December quarter. We continue to see great enthusiasm for iPad from consumer, business and education customers. Employee demand for iPad in the corporate environment remains strong and the response to the product continues to be significant.

Enterprise CIOs are adding iPad to their approved device list at an amazing rate. Today over 80% of the Fortune 100 are already deploying or piloting iPad, up from 65% in the September quarter. Some recent examples include JPMorgan Chase, Cardinal Health, Wells Fargo, Archer Daniels Midland, Sears Holding and DuPont.

Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad accessories during the quarter was $4.61 billion. The sales volume of iPods alone was over $4.4 billion, which yields an ASP of about $600. We increased the supply of iPads during the quarter and expanded both the number of countries and the number of channel partners carrying iPads.

Channel inventory increased by about 525,000 units from the beginning to the end of the quarter to support increased sales and channel expansion. And we ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks.

Combining iPhone, iPad and iPod touch we reached over 160 million cumulative iOS device sales through the end of the December quarter. In November we launched iOS 4.2, which brings over 100 new features to iPad users, including multitasking, folders, unified inbox, a game center, AirPlay and AirPrint. The App Store continues to be incredibly successful with over 300,000 apps available and well over 9 billion downloads to date.

We continue to be very pleased with iAd, which combines the narrative quality of TV ads with the interactivity of digital to provide a new kind of advertising experience. During the quarter we expanded iAd beyond the US to Europe and Japan and provided iAd Producer to marketers.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores, which had a record-breaking quarter. Retail revenue almost doubled year-over-year to $3.85 billion compared to $1.97 billion in the year ago quarter, an increase of 95%.

IPad sales in our stores were very strong in the first holiday quarter. The stores also delivered a record Mac quarter, selling 851,000 Macs compared to 689,000 Macs in the year ago quarter, an increase of 24%. About half the Macs sold in our stores during the December quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before.

International retail store sales were particularly strong with our average international store volume exceeding our very productive average US store volume. Additionally, our four stores in China were on average our highest traffic and our highest revenue stores in the world.

We opened six stores during the December quarter, bringing us to a total of 323 stores worldwide at the quarter end, with 87 of them outside the United States. With an average of 321 stores open during the December quarter average revenue per store was $12 million, compared to $7.1 million in the year ago quarter, an increase of 69%.

Retail segment margin exceeded $1 billion for the first time, and more than doubled from $481 million in the year ago quarter. We hosted a record 75.7 million visitors in our stores during the quarter compared to 50.9 million visitors in the year ago quarter, an increase of 49%.

Total Company gross margin was 38.5%, which was about 250 basis points higher than our guidance. About half this difference was due to better commodity cost than we had planned. The remainder of the difference was due to the leverage on the higher revenue, and lower other product cost, including freight, warranty and phone support.

Operating expenses were $2.47 billion, and included $247 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $136 million, ahead of our guidance primarily due to the positive impact of fluctuating foreign exchange rates from net assets.

The tax rate for the quarter was 24.6%, below our guidance of 25.5%, due to the one-time benefit of the retroactive extension of the R&D tax credit from January 1, 2010. We expect our tax rate for the remaining quarters of fiscal '11 to be about 25.5%.

Turning to cash, our cash, both short-term and long-term marketable securities, totaled $59.7 billion at the end of the December quarter compared to $51 billion at the end of the September quarter, an increase of $8.7 billion.

Cash flow from operations was $9.8 billion, an increase of 69% year-over-year. During the September and December quarters we executed long-term supply agreements with three vendors through which we expect to spend a total of approximately $3.9 billion in inventory component prepayments and capital expenditures over a two-year period.

We made approximately $650 million in payments under these agreements in the December quarter, and anticipate making $1.05 billion in payments in the March quarter.

As we move ahead into the March quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenues to be about $22 billion, compared to $13.5 billion in the March quarter last year. We expect gross margins to be about 38.5%, reflecting approximately $50 million related to stock-based compensation expense.

We expect OpEx to be about $2.35 billion, including about $250 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $50 million. And we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%. We are targeting EPS of about $4.90.

In closing, we are extremely pleased with our record-breaking results and customer response to our products. We look forward to expanding the reach of the iPhone in the United States with the addition of Verizon. And we remain very confident in our strategy and our new product pipeline. And with that I would like to open the call to questions.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Peter. Also joining us for Q&A are Apple COO Tim Cook, and Treasurer Gary Wipfler. And we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question please?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

Katy, your line is open. You may want to check your mute button.

NANCY PAXTON: Can we go on to the next question and come back?

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. I had a question for you with regard to availability of iPhones, especially with the Verizon launch. I think you had mentioned that there was a backlog that you weren't able to meet in the December quarter. So I don't know, Tim and Peter, if you could talk a little bit about what you're doing to ensure that you have sufficient quantities of iPhones and any changes you have made to ensure more component availability.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Hi, Shannon, it is Tim. As I mentioned on last quarter's call, we made a very bold bet on taking iPhone capacity for the September quarter with the new iPhone 4 in the lineup to 14 million. As you may remember, we sold over 14 million that quarter in total iPhones. It was a fantastic quarter. That was up from a previous number that was in the 8, 8ish range.

We were able to step that up in this past quarter to over 16, as Peter said in his opening remarks, and so we were able to increase over 2 million. And we obviously have continued to work on increasing this further. But as with all good things it takes some time to do that.

Relative to Verizon, we are thrilled to offer the iPhone 4 to Verizon with 93 million customers, as well as any new customers who want an iPhone 4 on Verizon. And we're going to do everything possible to get the iPhone into as many hands of those customers as possible.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, great, and then I just have one follow-up. With regard to the Mac App Store, which clearly just started, so I am not sure how much you'll talk about it, but we have noticed your best-selling apps tend to be Apple software based -- Apple software apps. So how should we think about the Mac App Store, any initial thoughts you have on it and initial things you have seen? Thank you.

TIM COOK: It is just getting going, but we are thrilled to have reported over 1 million in a very short amount of time, and so we're very happy with the start of it.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Katy Huberty, Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Good afternoon. The first question for Tim. How comfortable are you right now with the availability of iPhones and iPads? And if you still see shortages how quickly do you think they can be addressed early this year?

TIM COOK: Let me take each one of those separately. On iPad we increased dramatically last quarter. We sold 7.3. The previous quarter we were in the low 4's, as you know. That did get us into supply/demand balance and also allowed us to expand to 46 countries or to a total of 46 by the end of the quarter, which added 20 during the quarter.

And we are confident enough to add another 15 countries during the month of January that will take us over 60. And so we feel very, very good about the progress that we have made here.

Relative to iPhone 4, I also feel very, very good about what we have been able to do; however, it is not enough. We do still have a significant backlog. We are working around the clock to build more.

I feel great that the demand is so hot that we -- at this point I'm not going to predict when supply and demand will meet. We believe the reaction and results from the Verizon customers will be huge, and so I don't want to give a prediction right now on when supply and demand will cross.

KATY HUBERTY: Tim, one of the most impressive metrics is the sequential and year-on-year growth at Asia-Pacific. Can you just talk about what is driving that and what plans you have in place going forward to sustain that growth?

TIM COOK: Yes, that is a very good question. First of all, let me say that of the BRIC countries, Brazil, Russia, India, China, we several years ago identified China as our top priority, and we put enormous energy into China. The results of that have been absolutely staggering.

To give you some numbers there and some specifics -- and we look at Greater China as a region. Greater China, just for clarity is Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The revenue from Greater China for Apple for last quarter was $2.6 billion, which was up 4X from the prior-year quarter. And to further -- just an exclamation point by that, we did a little over $3 billion for the entire year, fiscal year '10. So we are very, very proud of the team and the results that we have gotten there.

Korea is also -- has also been a very, very good market for us. We had an outstanding Q1 there, primarily driven by iPhone and iPad. And there are several other Asian countries doing extremely well.

Japan is not in the segment that you're looking at, but Japan by itself, the revenue was up 83% year-over-year. And if you are familiar with the Japanese economy and the growth there, to grow 83% on the base that we are doing is stunning. And so we are placing more and more resource in these areas and continue to look for expansion possibilities throughout Asia.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon, and I will add my congratulations. And a question for Tim in terms of the long-term business planning. There has been a lot of questions in terms of how far out you guys actually plan. I was wondering if there is any insight you can give us in terms of what your long-term business plan is in terms of product roadmap?

Obviously, you can't share what that roadmap is, but how far out do you guys go? And retail stores and so forth, is it a one-year plan, is it a five-year plan, is it -- any sort of insight would be helpful?

TIM COOK: Well, that is a part of the magic of Apple. And I don't want to let anybody know our magic, because I don't want anybody copying it. What I would tell you is that in my view Apple is doing its best work ever. That we are all very happy with the product pipeline. And the team here has an unparalleled breadth and depth of talent and a culture of innovation that Steve has driven in the Company, and excellence has become a habit. So we feel very, very confident about the future of the Company.

I would also note for those people that haven't thought about it is we have done outstanding in our Mac business. We have had 19 quarters straight of growing faster than the market. But we still have a relatively low share of a very large PC market just by having great momentum there. So it would seem like there is enormous opportunity still there.

We have relatively low share in the handset market. The handset market is well over 1 billion units a year, and the smartphone market is growing faster than a weed. So there is enormous opportunity here and we have incredible momentum in that space.

iPads just got started. It is a new category. We sold almost 15 million through the first three quarters. And we believe the market is huge. IDC, I saw this morning, is predicting it to quadruple in two years. I don't know what to predict in terms of specific numbers; however, we believe it is a huge market, as we have said before.

So we are in some great markets, some fast-moving markets. We have the best products we have ever done, and an incredible product pipeline. We feel very, very confident.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay, that's helpful. And just a follow-up for Peter. In terms of iPhones you mentioned that if not for production constraints you could have sold more. Is there any way to help us back into how many more?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You can't run the experiment both ways. Demand for iPhones has just been incredible. We could not make enough in the quarter, and we would have loved to have ended with more channel inventory than we did.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Gene. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Richard Gardner, Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you and congrats. I was just hoping that you could talk about what components were better than you thought in terms of price during the quarter?

And then, Tim, if you could give us your thoughts on the commodity environment going into the March quarter, given that flat panels are below cash costs for some providers. What are you looking for going into the March quarter please? Thank you.

TIM COOK: In terms of the go forward in March quarter and what is embedded in the guidance that Peter gave earlier is that we expect a favorable pricing environment for DRAM, where supply exceeds the demand still.

Some prices for raw materials, such as key metals, is currently increasing due to the anticipated strengthening of the worldwide economy. It remains to be seen whether that continues.

The bulk of the other commodities from NAND Flash to batteries to HDDs to ODDs to LCDs and most other commodities are generally in a supply/demand balance, and so we would expect this group of commodities to fall in prices consistent with their historical trends. In terms of what we saw last quarter, frankly speaking, in most areas we saw a favorability, and it was a key part of us overachieving our guidance gross margin.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, thank you. Actually, Tim, if I could follow up, can you talk about which component areas you are making long-term commitments in on supply? Thank you.

TIM COOK: You know, it is something I don't want to give out, because I view it as a competitive -- something I just don't want our competition knowing. But let me talk about it in general and hopefully that will suffice.

From our point of view on the design side, we design components where we believe we can innovate beyond what is available in the market. And the most recent example of this is the A4 chip. But with the A4 chip we didn't feel like we had to invest in the fab itself and build a fab. Because we felt like there were good options in the market for doing that, but not good options in terms of buying a design, and so we have really focused on design.

On the operational side of the house, as you probably remember, we have historically entered into certain agreements with different people to secure supply and other benefits. And the largest one in the recent past has been -- we signed a deal with several Flash suppliers back at the end of 2005 that totaled over $1 billion. Because we anticipated that Flash would become increasingly important across our entire product line, and increasingly important to the industry, and so we wanted a secure supply for the Company.

We think that was an absolutely fantastic use of Apple's cash. And we constantly look for more of these. So in the past several quarters we have identified another area and come to some recent agreements that Peter talked about in his opening comments. And these payments consist of both prepayments and capital for process equipment and tooling. And similar to the Flash agreements, they are focused in an area that we feel is very strategic.

And in fact, I prefer not to go into more detail about what specific area it is in. But it is the same kind of thinking that led us to those deals that led us to the Flash deals.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, that is helpful. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, Goldman Sachs.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thanks. Guys, in the past year your bill of materials for key devices has generally come down at a rate that allowed for a fairly healthy gross margin expansion over time. And I would say that this has generally been true for iPod refreshes in the past, iPhone refreshes.

Is there anything different about the iPad that we should consider going forward that would make it difficult for margins to follow this historical pattern? And did you see some of this in the most recent quarter as well?

TIM COOK: So margins consist of a number of different factors like which direction the commodity markets are going, where the product is within the product lifecycle, and as well as the value engineering that we do and negotiating and so forth we do. So I don't think that you can take a single product kind of out by itself and speak about it with any accuracy.

As you know, we don't guide at the product level on margin. We are confident with the guidance that Peter provided on gross margin in his opening comments.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I would add to that that we have always aggressively worked to lower our costs. I think we have a good track record in this regard. And we shipped a lot of iPads in the December quarter and had very strong gross margins, so I think we were quite happy with our progress.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, that's helpful. I understand. On the iPad side again, now that you have had the opportunity over the past few weeks to see more detailed specs, and in some cases, the price points for all the countless tablet devices coming in 2011, can you comment on how you're currently viewing the competitive landscape for the iPad and how that has changed, if at all, over the past few months?

TIM COOK: If you look at what is shipping today there is not much out there, as you know. Generally speaking, there is two kind of groups today that are at least on the market today. The ones that are using a Windows-based operating system are generally fairly big and heavy and expensive. They have a very weak battery life. They require keyboard or stylus as an input device. And from our point of view and what we have seen customers, frankly, just are just not interested in them.

Then you have the Android tablets. And the variety that are out shipping today, the operating system wasn't really designed for tablet. Google has said this, and so this is not just an Apple view by any means. So you wind up having a size of a tablet that is less than what we believe is reasonable, or even one that would provide what we feel is a real tablet experience. So basically you wind up with kind of a scaled up smartphone, which is a bizarre product in our view.

Then you've got a third group -- so those are the two that are shipping today. And, frankly speaking, it is hard for me to understand if somebody does a side-by-side with an iPad, I think some enormous percentage of people are going to select an iPad there. Those are not tablets that we have any concern on.

The next generation Android tablets, which are primarily what you mentioned in terms of the CES, there is nothing shipping yet, and so I don't know. Generally they lack performance specs, they lack prices, they lack timing. And so today they are vapor. We will assess them as they come out; however, we are not sitting still, and we have a huge first mover advantage. We have an incredible user experience from iTunes to the App Store and an enormous number of apps and a huge ecosystem. So we are very, very confident with entering into a fight with anyone.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Toni Sacconaghi, Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. You have said on previous earnings calls that the move to iPhone non-exclusivity in regions of the world has had no impact on your ASPs. Can you comment on whether that is still the case today, and whether we should expect any impact in the migration away from US exclusivity?

And related to that, there are several large carriers globally that the iPhone is still not offered in. Can you talk about some of the reasons why that isn't the case? Many of them are CDMA-based, and given that you now have a CDMA-based offering, is it unreasonable to expect that we should see more CDMA carriers going forward?

TIM COOK: Hi, Toni, it is Tim. Relative to the ASP, I generally would not do this, and I want to be specific that this comment isn't related to the US or any specific carrier or any specific region. But to specifically answer your question, I don't envision the overall iPhone ASP decreasing from the December quarter that we just completed to the March quarter that we are currently in. And as you know, our long-standing practice has been we don't comment on -- after that period of time.

Relative to other carriers, we are always looking and assessing in every country who we should be doing business with and exploring different deals and arrangements, etc. And so we will continue to do that. What I have said before, and it has -- we have seen this in every case literally that we have done is where we have moved from an exclusive carrier arrangement to a dual or multicarrier arrangement, our growth has changed significantly and our marketshare has increased.

So that doesn't mean that would happen in every country, nor does it mean that we are just out doing that in every country. We look at each one individual, because each market has its own individual characteristics and parameters and technologies.

On the CDMA phone, specifically, I don't have any specific thing to announce today, other than we are truly thrilled to be working with the Verizon team. They have built quite a company and earned a great deal of respect from their customers. And some of them have waited a long time to get iPhone, and we are very, very happy to give them iPhone and any other customers that are non-Verizon customers who wish to buy an iPhone.

We are also very happy that we have signed a multiyear nonexclusive deal with AT&T. And so we're very happy that we will have shortly a dual carrier setup in the United States.

TONI SACCONAGHI: If I could follow up on that, given your previous comments on China and the importance of that country strategically for you and the investments that you are making in stores, etc., can you maybe use that as a case study for why you're only in one carrier there?

I think you have said that there are no longer any exclusive conditions that you have in place globally with any carrier. So can you talk about other either impediments or hindrances beyond technology, of which CDMA is one, that may be limiting your ability to sign important carrier agreements in potentially very important strategic areas for the Company?

TIM COOK: I have generally found people really want to do business with us. And their customers are -- very much desire to have the iPhone, so I don't really see a lack of desire. I don't want to comment about any specific country because I view any conversations that we have going confidential in nature.

It is true, as you said, that we are not under a contractual exclusivity now in any country in the world. The last one was the United States. So we have moved away from those.

I can guarantee you that we are -- we always are looking at opportunities to grow. Of course, in the very short term I would also remind you that we are constrained on iPhone 4, and we are working around the clock to get as many of these out to our existing partners as we can.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Toni. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: [Bryan Blair], [Sledge Partners].

BRYAN BLAIR, ANALYST, SLEDGE PARTNERS: Great, thank you. Congratulations on a great quarter. Can you maybe give us your updated thoughts on the Mac side, and maybe specifically address the impact of iPads. You know, with the tremendous iPad unit this quarter, the cannibalization question is going to come up, and I just want to hear your latest thoughts on that, if we could.

TIM COOK: That's a good question. What we saw in the Mac this quarter was we grew 23% at the worldwide level, and that is compared to a market growth of only 3%, so we grew almost 8 times the market rate of growth, which is, I think, stunning, in every region [of] the market. So it wasn't just one region. Asia-Pacific, led the growth with a whopping 67% year-over-year increase. And that is almost 10 times what the market did there, to put it in context.

Japan grew at 56%, which is about 6 times the market. And Europe and the United States both grew in double digits despite both markets contracting overall. So we did significantly better than the market in every major region, and we are very proud of that.

Now was there any cannibalization by iPad? Honestly, I don't know for sure, but, yes, I think there is some cannibalization. But I also think there is a halo effect. As we have seen on the Mac by the iPod some years ago, I think there is a halo effect from Apple product to Apple product. And, of course, we have introduced millions of people in Asia to Apple through the iPhone. And we are now introducing many were through the iPad, and I think some of those decide to buy Mac.

So when you look at the Mac growth in Asia at 67%, and you look at the Japan growth at 56%, and you look at the US and Europe growing in double digits against shrinking markets, if this is cannibalization it feels pretty good.

The other point I would make is that if the iPad or tablets do cannibalize the PC markets, keep in mind that we have low share of the PC market. The other guys lose a lot more and we have a lot more to win because of that.

So, honestly, cannibalization is not something that we are spending one minute on here. The iPad team are building the best iPads for the future and the Mac teams are building the best Macs. And I can tell you that both groups believe that they can continue to grow and do great stuff, and I believe that.

BRYAN BLAIR: That's a great way to look at it. One of the things that's interesting to me is I see this trend of you are bring a lot more of the functionality from the tablet side -- you are bringing it on to the Mac side. It was talked about earlier that the Mac App Store that is now on Mac OS 10. And then as we are getting teaser shots of Lion, it looks like the next OS is also taking even more design and UI elements from the iPad side.

So maybe if you could just talk about that a little bit. Are these two platforms really merging into one, and is this the future of computing as you see it, or are you just grabbing one or two aspects of tablets and bringing it into the OS 10?

TIM COOK: I think, one of the -- part of the magic of Apple is that there is not high walls between these product groups. They like each other, talk to each other. They are of the same DNA. They want to build the best products in the world. So if one has a great idea, there is not a not-invented here in the other group.

So one of the key learnings from the iPad was that people love instant on. They really love that. So the MacBook Air incorporated that. And that is just one simple example, but there are tons of examples through all of our products where something started on one and went to a different one.

And it is not always in the same direction either. It could start on the phone and then flow forward. It could start on the iPad and flow and so on and so forth.

So it is a part of the way we run the Company. I think Steve said it great when he said, if the Mac company were a separate company and the iPad company were a separate company, what would the Mac company build to compete with the iPad? And I think the answer is the MacBook Air.

I think that is a phenomenal insight, and I think a great way to look at it. It is not that the groups are competing, and they are sharing and coming up with these incredible products that people really want.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bryan.

BRYAN BLAIR: Great, thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman, Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: Hi, guys. It actually relates to what you were just talking about. Tim, do you have data that you have gathered on the phone and or the iPad? I am new to the brand. You typically talk about Macs, in the stories, you're getting 50% new to the brand. Do you have any data related to the newness of the brand? I would assume it is substantially higher than that, but I wanted to hear a little bit about that.

Depending on that outcome, if you talk a little bit about how you think these products, and particularly the Pad, in emerging market may help to continue to drive share opportunities for you.

TIM COOK: Yes, I don't want to share -- did we collect it, yes, of course we do. The numbers for iPhone are --there are many sets of numbers now because we have been shipping iPhone for a while. Any product that you ship for a while looks a little different at the front end when you're in the early adopter cycle versus when you get into the mainstream. Now iPad went through that cycle quickly and moved from mainstream to enterprise and all the rest in record time.

But, nevertheless, that data needs to settle some even before internally we put a lot of weight in it. But the bulk of your question doesn't need specific numbers to make a point. If you look at our Asia Pacific business, the revenue growth was 175% or so, and so this is incredible. And the size business in Asia that we have now built is massive. To do $2.6 billion in China in three months, where just two years ago we did less than $1 billion in the whole year is phenomenal. And -- or actually for the year before.

So I think we are -- it is clear that we are introducing a lot of people to Apple who previously had not been introduced to the Company, and I think that helps across the product line.

KEITH BACHMAN: Can I ask a follow-up, Tim?

TIM COOK: Yes, sure.

KEITH BACHMAN: In the US, I'm just trying to understand how you see the tablet market more broadly having greater penetration rates say in established markets versus emerging market. Typically the notion is the tablets in many cases are more about consumption versus creation. And I just wanted to hear your thoughts, not on growth rate, but on absolute unit opportunities between the established markets and the emerging markets.

TIM COOK: I think that the tablet market is -- the opportunity is so large it is large everywhere honestly.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, all right, fair enough. Thanks very much.

TIM COOK: I think it's huge, yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Keith. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, Barclays Capital,

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: A question for Peter. I just wanted to hash out the revenue outlook. Your sequential decline of 17% is a little more than last year's, but you have Verizon now for the iPhone, so what components, other than iPod, are expected to have -- to contribute the big decline, if intuitively maybe iPhones have some support from Verizon?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll answer your question in a couple ways. First of all, we are working hard to increased supply of iPhones. Tim has talked about that, but that will come over a period of time and not necessarily overnight, as we said.

In terms of the sequential guidance this year, let me start by saying we are thrilled to be giving you guidance for 63% revenue growth year-over-year, which will translate to 50% earnings growth. So that the business is performing extremely well. We are shipping the best products in Apple's history and customer response has been tremendous.

But as I said in my prepared remarks, we increased the iPhone and the iPad channel inventory by about 775,000 units, and this will have a bit of an impact on the sequential compare that you referred to.

In terms of the products, for Mac we just reported the highest Mac sales ever, and we have outgrown the market for 19 consecutive quarters. We would expect to see a sequential unit decline, which is typical for us after the holiday season.

For iPod we would also expect to see a large sequential decline, which is also typical for us after the holiday season. For iPhone, we would expect to see a significant year-over-year increase.

And for iPad this will be our first experience going from the December to March quarter, so we will see. However, that was clear to us that the iPad was a hot holiday gift item, which fueled the 75% sequential growth that we saw in the December quarter, and given this, we would expect a sequential decline in the March quarter. So that is what has gone into our thinking.

BEN REITZES: Thanks so much. Then just a follow-up for Tim. Last call, or one of the last calls, Steve had a lot of comments around Android and perhaps some of its disadvantages versus your platform. Just is there any other observations you would like to make now that we had a few more months to see the market develop further, and with Verizon and even more tablet sales on the Verizon that your feedback you're getting from developers is there anything else you would like to add on the battle with Android, updating Steve's recent comments from last quarter?

TIM COOK: Well, if you look at the iPhone portion, we had record sales on the iPhone with 16.2 million units sold in the quarter, and as Peter said, we believe we could have sold more if we had more supply.

From the market estimates that we have seen, it suggests that we grew faster than the market. Obviously, we are working around the clock on increasing supply. We are continuing to expand countries and carriers. And you guys talked a little bit of what with Toni's questions.

We are getting enormous enterprise traction with 88% of the Fortune 100, which is mind blowing, I believe. 83% of the Fortune 500, 60% of the [MT] 100. So the enterprise traction is gaining.

We had the highest customer sat ratings in the industry versus Android or RIM or any -- we have the largest app store with over 300,000 apps. We have now sold over 160 million iOS devices. This is huge.

And we fundamentally believe that our integrated approach delivers a far superior customer experience than the fragmented approach. You can see this in a variety of ways from the fragmentation of the number of apps stores out there that people are going to pull their hair out because they're going to have a variety of updating methodologies and a variety of payment methods and slightly different derivative.

You can see from surveys people are doing to see who is on the latest OS, and you'll notice that the iOS is always off the charts on the percentage of people that have the latest version versus the other guys.

We are launching with Verizon next month. We believe there is a huge pent-up demand there, and we think that will help us in the US. So I think I probably just repeated much of what he said before. But the net net is we think our integrated approach is much better for the end-user, because it makes -- it takes out all the complexity for the end-user instead of making the end-user a systems integrator themselves.

I don't know about you, but I don't know very many people that want to be system integrators. (technical difficulty) or somebody in the enterprise. So I think that the more iPhones that we can get out there into people's hands, the more people love them. And I think we've got a very bright future.

I think the same thing about iPad. It is the same set of issues at the end of the day. The difference is on iPads of course, is that we have -- we have been running three quarters without any significant competition of any type. And I think that the customer sat ratings on the iPad are also off the charts. So I don't know if any of that is new; I doubt that it is, but I think we are in a very good position.

BEN REITZES: Okay, thanks, Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you, good afternoon. Peter, I want to see if you can give us a little more insight on the iPad gross margins going forward. Just given Tim's comment earlier about the bounty of underachievers out there (inaudible), should we assume then that Apple can really improve the feature set with the next generation and kind of hold pricing stable?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I am sorry, Mark, that is not a question I can answer. We don't talk about future products. But I can tell you that in terms of what we are shipping today we are always aggressively working to lower our costs. And I think we have a good track record in doing so. And our gross margins were stronger than we thought for the December quarter. And I provided guidance for the March quarter at 38.5%. So we feel very, very good about the performance of our products and our cost center products.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Then my follow-up, Tim, I apologize if this question has been asked. I fell off for moment. I want to come back to the MacBook Air. Just given the initial success here and momentum, can you give us any set of insights in terms of how you're looking at that platform now? Is it a premium tablet? Is this more of a notebook still? I just want to get a sense is this kind of a one-two punch in terms of the iPad with the MacBook Air giving you double coverage, if you will, in both notebooks and in tablets?

TIM COOK: The way that we look at it is the Mac of the future shipping today. And it was a phenomenal part of our growth on the Mac last quarter. It had gotten off to an unbelievable start. The customers love it. They love the precision of it, they love the thinness, the weight, the instant on. The list is long of things.

So we are really happy with how it is doing out of the starting block. You know, we have only been shipping it for less than 90 days, so we have just gotten going.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mark. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Hi, there has still a lot of talk about this consumerization of enterprise technology, and obviously, it is being driven by folks brining in their iPhones and their iPads to work. I know you cited some big share gains within your statistics, but I was curious if you think there still are some barriers around maybe developer training at the corporate level or security, or things that just naturally need to get worked through before you start to see those penetration numbers even increase further or start to see a wider swathe of employees using iPhones and iPads in business?

TIM COOK: I think that the consumerization that you speak of at the enterprise is one of the megatrends that are occurring. I think the most forward-looking CIOs are coming to the realization that the productivity of the person, the creativity of the employee is materially more important than everyone using the same thing. And that the ability to write apps in a simple and straightforward manner for the phone or the iPad through the SDK is an incredible thing, and you can wind up literally running your whole business off of an iPad or an iPhone.

So I think the list of ideas and places that people can go there are -- were unimaginable just a few months ago. And so I see an enormous potential there. The numbers are already incredible. Think about this, the iPad started shipping in April, and we are already up to 80% of the largest companies deploying or piloting the product. This is unheard of, at least in my dealings with the enterprise over the years. Generally enterprises is much slower, much more cautious and uses things that have been in the market for a long time.

I think to everyone's credit they have seen the value of this from a productivity and creativity point of view, and they are really moving fast. So I think we are just scratching the surface right now.

In terms of inhibitors, the iPad has a huge advantage because, you probably remember, as we went to various different iOS releases we always put in a huge chunk of enterprise features. And so this isn't something that we just started focusing on. We started focusing on this before we shipped the first phones. With the synergies that exist with the iOS between the different products, other products get the advantage of it, not just the product that it ships on initially. So, yes, I think there is a huge play here for us.

JASON MAYNARD: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Jason. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes Store, as a webcast on apple.com/investor, and by telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. The confirmation code is 275-2840. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5 PM Pacific time today.

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570, and I am at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | itablcm : Tablet Computers | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302011 : Portable/Notebook Computers | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110201e71i001gw
  


 HD
 Q4  2010 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,646 words
   PD
18 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone. Welcome to this Apple Incorporated fourth quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings release. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR - IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you, good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation those regarding revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2009 as amended, the Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal 2010, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective date. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP - FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're extremely pleased to report the conclusion of a great fiscal year for Apple with outstanding results for the September quarter. Our innovative product line up is the best ever, and customer response has been tremendous. As a result, we set new all-time records for Mac, iPhone, and iPad sales in the September quarter, and we are thrilled to report the highest quarterly revenue and earnings in Apple's history.

Revenue for the quarter was $20.34 billion, an increase of more than $8.1 billion over the prior September quarter's results, representing growth of 67%. The very strong growth was fueled primarily by record iPhone sales, the tremendous popularity of iPad, and our best Mac quarter ever. Operating margin was $5.45 billion, representing 26.8% of revenue. Net income was $4.31 billion, which exceeded our previous quarterly earnings record by $930 million, and represented 70% growth over the year ago quarter's earnings. These results translated to earnings per share of $4.64.

Turning to the details of the quarter, I'd like to begin with our Mac products and services. We set a new quarterly record with sales of almost 3.9 million Macs, exceeding the previous record established in the June quarter by over 400,000. This represents 27% year-over-year growth, more than double IDC's latest published estimate of 11% growth for the market overall in the September quarter. We experienced strong double digit growth in both Mac desktop and portable categories, lead by very strong sales of iMac, which was updated in July and the continued popularity of the MacBook Pro and MacBook. Mac growth was strong in each of our geographic segments, lead by Asia Pacific at 56% year-over-year, and Japan at 49%.

We began and ended the quarter of between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory. Moving to our music products, we sold nearly 9.1 million iPods compared to 10.2 million in the year ago quarter. In September, we announced a great new line up of iPods for the holiday season, including our redesigned iPod shuffle featuring clickable buttons, the re-invented iPod nano with multitouch, and the new iPod touch with retina display and FaceTime video calling. iPod's share of the US market for MP 3 players remains over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by NPD. iPod also continued to be the top selling MP3 player and to gain share internationally in year-over-year in most of the countries we track, based on the latest data we publish by GFK. We remain within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory on a look back basis.

The iTunes store also had another strong quarter with revenue over $1 billion. In September, we launched iTunes 10, including a number of new features such as $0.99 TV rentals, Airplay wireless music playback and PING, which offers social music discovery to millions of iTunes users in 23 countries. We also introduced the new Apple TV, which provides a simple way to watch movies and TV shows on your HDTV for the breakthrough price of just $99.

I'd now like to turn to iPhone. We were extremely pleased to have sold 14.1 million iPhones compared to just under 7.4 million in the previous September quarter. This represents 91% year-over-year growth, and is well ahead of IDC's latest published estimate of 64% growth for the global SmartPhone market overall in the September quarter. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset and accessory sales was $8.82 billion during the quarter, compared with $4.61 billion in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 92%. The sales value of iPhones alone was about $8.6 billion, which yields an ASP of about $610.

At the end of the September quarter, we had iPhone distribution through 166 carriers in 89 countries. We continued to experience very strong year-over-year growth, particularly in Asia, Europe and Japan, where iPhone sales more than doubled year-over-year. We were very happy to be shipping iPhone 4 in China as of the last day of the September quarter, and we've been very pleased with customer response to date.

Last month, JD Power & Associates announced for the fourth consecutive time, Apple ranked highest in its survey of customer satisfaction among manufactures of SmartPhones, citing particularly strong performance and ease of operation, operating system, features, and physical design. Adoption of iPhone within the enterprise continues to accelerate. In fact, since we've shipped iPhone 4, we've seen extraordinary growth from 60% to more than 80% of Fortune 500 companies deploying or piloting iPhone.

Enterprise CIOs continue to add iPhone to their approved device list worldwide. Most recently, Fortune 500 companies like Proctor & Gamble, General Electric, Pfizer, Allstate and Cardinal Health and global 500 accounts such as Aviva Group, Total, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi-Aventis have made iPhone available to their employees. We ended the quarter with about 3.3 million iPhones in channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 825,000, to support the launch of iPhone 4. We continue to have a sizeable backlog and believe we could have sold even more iPhones if we had been able to supply them.

Turning to iPad, we're thrilled with its momentum. In just the second quarter of availability, we sold almost 4.2 million iPads with distribution in 26 countries by the end of the September quarter. We're seeing great enthusiasm for iPad from consumers, educators and businesses. Enterprise CIOs are adding iPad to their approved device list at an impressive rate.

Since the launch of iPad, over 65% of the Fortune 100 are already deploying or piloting iPad. Some recent examples of companies approving iPad include Proctor & Gamble, Lowe's, Hyatt, NBC Universal and Novartis. Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad Accessories during the quarter was $2.8 billion. The sales value of iPads alone was about $2.7 billion, which yields an ASP of about $645.

We were able to increase the supply of iPads over the course of the quarter, building channel inventory by about 500,000 units to end the quarter with between three and four weeks of channel inventory, below our target range of four to six weeks. We are expanding US iPad distribution to include Wal-Mart, Target, Verizon and AT&T stores. We are also expanding distribution internationally.

Combining iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. we surpassed cumulative iOS device sales of 125 million last month. During the September quarter, we released iOS4.1. which builds on the innovations of iOS4, bringing FaceTime video calling, multitasking, folders and game center to iPod touch in addition to iPhone customers, and in November we plan to release iOS4.2, which will bring many of the great new features of iOS4 to iPad. iOS4.2 will also include AirPrint, Apple's new printing architecture that automatically finds printers on local networks and enables printing from iOS devices over Wi-Fi without the need to install drivers or download software.

The App store continues to be an unparalleled success. There are now over 200,000 registered iOS developers that continue to bring outstanding and creating new Apps to the iOS platform, including over 65,000 game and entertainment titles and over 30,000 Apps designed specifically for iPad. And we launched iAd in July, which provides marketers with the ability to place interactive ads in popular Apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad. We were very happy with the results so far. Customers are loving the media rich ads and marketers are very pleased with viewer engagement.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores, which had a record breaking quarter. Retail revenue was $3.57 billion compared to $2.04 billion in the year ago quarter, an increase of 75%. Our stores sold a record 874,000 Macs compared to 670,000 Macs in the year ago quarter, an increase of 30%. About half the Macs sold in our stores during the September quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before.

We opened 24 stores during the September quarter, 16 of which were outside the United States, including spectacular stores in Beijing, Shanghai, London, and Paris. Our new Beijing and Shanghai stores opened on the last day of the quarter and first day sales from those stores exceeded all previous store openings. Our four China stores are our highest traffic stores in the world, and are among our highest performing.

We also entered our 11th country, with the opening of stores in Barcelona and Madrid. That brings us to a total of 317 stores worldwide as of the end of the quarter, with 84 of them outside the United States. With an average of 301 stores open during the September quarter, average revenue per store was $11.8 million compared to $7.8 million in the year ago quarter, an increase of 52%. Retail segment margin was $917 million compared to $564 million in the year-ago quarter. We hosted a record 74.5 million visitors in our stores during the quarter compared to 45.9 million visitors in the year ago quarter, an increase of 62%.

As we look ahead to fiscal 2011, we see great opportunity to continue our retail growth with our focus on international expansion. In total, we expect to open 40 to 50 stores in our fiscal 2011 with over 50% of them outside the United States. We will also begin replacing several stores in the United States to get them right sized for Apple's current product line and to meet our service goals.

Total Company gross margin was 36.9%, which was 190 basis points above our guidance. About two-thirds of this favorability was driven by lower commodity and other costs, and the remainder was mostly attributable to a better than planned mix of iPhone sales. Operating expenses were $2.07 billion and included$ 185 million of stock based compensation expense.

OI&E was $14 million, and the tax rate for the quarter was 21%, about five points below our guidance, largely a result of two factors. First, we had a higher mix of foreign earnings than we planned. Second, we had some discrete one-time tax benefits in the quarter as well. Our tax rate for fiscal 2010 was about 24.5%.

Turning to cash. Our cash plus short-term and long-term marketable securities totaled $51 billion at the end of the September quarter compared to $45.8 billion at the end of the June quarter, an increase of $5.2 billion. Cash flow from operations was $5.7 billion. The September quarter was the culmination of a monumental year for Apple. In fiscal 2010, we launched several new Macs establishing record sales of over $13.6 million and achieving 31% year-over-year sales growth, significantly outpacing the growth of the overall PC market.

We introduced the tremendously popular iPhone 4 with breakthrough features, including FaceTime and retina display, fueling full year sales of 40 million iPhones, an increase of 93% over fiscal 2009. We launched a groundbreaking iPad, selling nearly 7.5 million to delighted customers in two quarters alone. We also brought great new features to iOS and iTunes, and continued to innovate with completely new designs for iPod and as a result, we generated record revenue of over $65 billion, an increase of over $22 billion year-over-year or 52%. Earnings of $14 billion grew even faster at 70% year-over-year.

To put this growth into perspective, in fiscal 2010, Apple generated almost five times the revenue in more than 10 times the earnings it did just five years earlier in fiscal 2005. As we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be about $23 billion compared to $15.7 billion in the December quarter last year. We expect gross margins to be about 36%, reflecting approximately $52 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $2.325 billion, including about $250 million related to stock based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $65 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%. We are targeting EPS of about $4.80.

In closing, we're thrilled with our record September quarter and fiscal year 2010 results. We're very enthusiastic about our innovative product lineup and our significant opportunities for growth as we head into fiscal 2011 and we remain extremely confident in our new product pipeline. Before taking your questions, I would like to turn the call over to our CEO, Steve Jobs.

STEVE JOBS, CEO, APPLE INC.: Thanks, Peter. Hi, everybody. As most of you know, I don't usually participate in Apple's earnings calls, since you are all in such capable hands with Peter and Tim, but I just couldn't help dropping by for our first $20 billion quarter. I'd like to chat about a few things and then stay for the rest of the Q&A if that's all right.

First, let me discuss iPhone. We sold 14.1 million iPhones in the quarter, which represents a 91% unit growth over the year-ago quarter, and was well ahead of IDC's latest published estimate of 64% growth for the global SmartPhone market in the September quarter, and it handily beat RIM's 12.1 million BlackBerries sold in their most recent quarter, ending in August. We've now passed RIM, and I don't see them catching up with us in the foreseeable future. They must move beyond their area of strength and comfort into the unfamiliar territory, of trying to become a software platform company. I think it's going to be a challenge for them to create a competitive platform and to convince developers to create apps for yet a third software platform after iOS and Android. With 300,000 Apps on Apple's App Store, RIM has a high mountain ahead of them to climb.

Well what about Google? Last week, Eric Schmitt reiterated they are activating 200,000 Android devices per day and have around 90,000 Apps in their App Store. For comparison, Apple has activated around 275,000 iOS devices per day on average for the past 30 days, with a peak of almost 300,000 iOS devices per day on a few of those days, and Apple has 300,000 Apps on its App Store.

Unfortunately, there is no solid data on how many Android phones are shipped each quarter. We hope that manufactures will soon start reporting the number of Android handsets they ship each quarter but today, that just isn't the case. Gartner reported that around 10 million Android phones were shipped in the June quarter, and we a wait to see if iPhone or Android was the winner in this most recent quarter.

Google loves to characterize Android as open and iOS and iPhone as closed. We find this a bit disingenuous and clouding the real difference between our two approaches. The first thing most of us think about when we hear the word open is Windows, which is available on a variety of devices. Unlike Windows, however, where most PCs have the same user interface and run the same Apps, Android is very fragmented. Many Android OEMs, including the two largest, HTC and Motorola, install proprietary user interfaces to differentiate themselves from the commodity Android experience. The users will have to figure it all out. Compare this with iPhone, where every handset works the same.

A Twitter client, Twitter Deck recently launched their App for Android. They reported that they had to contend with more than 100 different versions of Android software on 244 different handsets. The multiple hardware and software iterations presents developers with a daunting challenge. Many Android Apps only work on selected Android handsets running selected Android versions and this is for handsets that have been shipped less than 12 months ago. Compare this with iPhone, where there are two versions of the software, the current and the most recent predecessor to test against.

In addition to Google's own App marketplace, Amazon, Verizon and Vodafone have all announced they are creating their own App stores for Android, so there will be at least four App stores on Android, which customers must search among to find the App they want and developers will need to work with to distribute their Apps and get paid. This is going to be a mess for both users and developers. Contrast this with Apple's integrated App Store, which offers users the easiest to use, largest App Store in the world, pre-loaded on every iPhone. Apple's App store has over three times as many Apps as Google's marketplace, and offers developers one stop shopping to get their Apps to market easily and to get paid swiftly.

Even if Google were right and the real issue is closed versus open, it is worthwhile to remember that open systems don't always win. Take Microsoft's Plays for Sure music strategy, which use the PC model, which Android uses as well, of separating the software components from the hardware components. Even Microsoft finally abandoned this open strategy in favor of copying Apple's integrated approach, with their Zune Player, unfortunately, leaving their OEMs empty handed in the process. Google flirted with this integrated approach with their Nexus One phone.

In reality, we think the open versus closed argument is just a smoke screen to try and hide the real issue which is what's best for the customer, fragmented versus integrated. We think Android is very fragmented and becoming more fragmented by the day, and as you know, Apple strives for the integrated model so that the user isn't forced to be the systems integrator. We see tremendous value in having Apple rather than our users be the systems integrator. We think this is a huge strength of our approach compared to Google's, when selling to users who want their devices to just work, we believe integrated will trump fragmented every time.

And we also think our developers can be more innovative if they can target a singular platform rather than 100 variants. They can put their time into innovative new features rather than testing on hundreds of different handsets, so we are very committed to the integrated approach, no matter how many times Google tries to characterize it as closed, and we are confident that it will triumph over Google's fragmented approach, no matter how many times Google tries to characterize it as open.

Second, I'd like to comment on the avalanche of tablets poised to enter the market in the coming months. First, it appears to be just a handful of credible entrants, not exactly an avalanche. Second, almost all of them use seven inch screens, as compared to iPad's near 10-inch screen. Let's start there. One naturally thinks that a seven inch screen would offer 70% of the benefits of a 10-inch screen. Unfortunately, this is far from the truth. The screen measurements are diagonal, so that a seven inch screen is only 45% as large as iPad's 10-inch screen. You heard me right, just 45% as large.

If you take an iPad and hold it up right in portrait view and draw an imaginary horizontal line half way down the screen, the screens on the seven inch tablets are a bit smaller than the bottom half of the iPad's display. This size isn't sufficient to create great tablet Apps, in our opinion. While one could increase the resolution of the display to make up for some of the difference, it is meaningless unless your tablet also includes sandpaper, so that the user can sand down their fingers to around one quarter of their present size. Apple has done extensive user testing on touch interfaces over many years, and we really understand this stuff. There are clear limits of how close you can physically place elements on a touch screen before users cannot reliably tap, flick, or pinch them. This is one of the key reasons we think the 10-inch screen size is the minimum size required to create great tablet Apps.

Third, every tablet user is also a SmartPhone user. No tablet can compete with the mobility of a SmartPhone, its ease of fitting into your pocket or purse, its unobtrusiveness when used in a crowd. Given that all tablet users will already have a SmartPhone in their pockets, giving up precious display area to fit a tablet in our pockets is clearly the wrong tradeoff. The seven inch tablets are tweeners, too big to compete with a SmartPhone and too small to compete with an iPad.

Fourth, almost all of these new tablets use Android software, but even Google is telling the tablet manufactures not to use their current release, Froyo, for tablets, and to wait for a special tablet release next year. What does it mean when your software supplier says not to use their software in your tablet? And what does it mean when you ignore them and use it anyway? Fifth. iPad now has over 35,000 Apps on the App store. This new crop of tablets will have near zero.

And sixth and last, our potential competitors are having a tough time coming close to iPad's pricing even with their far smaller, far less each pensive screens. The iPad incorporates everything we've learned about building high value products from iPhones, iPods and Macs. We create our own A4 chip, our own software, our own battery chemistry, our own enclosure, our own everything, and this results in an incredible product at a great price. The proof of this will be in the pricing of our competitors' products which will likely offer less for more.

These are among the reasons we think the current crop of seven inch tablets are going to be DOA, dead on arrival. Their manufactures will learn the painful lesson that their tablets are too small and increase the size next year, thereby abandoning both customers and developers who jumped on the seven inch bandwagon with an orphan product. Sounds like lots of fun ahead. So thank you and let me turn it back to Peter for the Q & A session.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Great.

NANCY PAXTON: We're ready to open the call to questions now, please.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your first question will come from Richard Gardner with Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Okay, great. Thank you. I had two quick ones if I could. One is supply constraints on iPad. Could you talk about how severe the supply constraints are on that product and how quickly you expect them to improve, and then a follow-up for Peter on gross margin please.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Hi, Rich, it's Tim. Relative to iPad supply/demand, we got into a balance situation in September with the limited number of distribution points in the 26 countries where we sold the iPad, and so we exited the quarter in a supply position that allows us to expand distribution prior to the holidays as we plan for some time, and hopefully you've seen some of the recent announcements of added partners in the United States. We're also expanding internationally, and we'll be launching additional countries as the quarter goes on.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, great, and then Peter, you mentioned several sequential tail winds for gross margin during the September quarter. Could you talk about the headwinds in the quarter and what impact they had on gross margins sequentially, please?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry, Rich, for the September quarter?

RICHARD GARDNER: For the September quarter, yes.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, in our last conference call, yes, we talked about several things that we thought would cause margins to come down some, and all those things did play out, but margins came down actually about half of what we thought that they would, and we did a bit better in the quarter because commodity and other costs were better than we thought, and we sold more iPhones than we had planned to.

RICHARD GARDNER: All right, well thank you and Steve, good to have you on the call. Thanks for joining.

STEVE JOBS: Sure, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich, could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Piper Jaffrey, we'll hear from Gene Munster.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon, and congratulations and I'll start with Steve, if you could talk a little bit about the iPad opportunity, you went through and give us some good insight in terms of the competitive landscape, but as analysts we're here trying to put some estimates out there, and we're not doing a great job of trying to figure out this trajectory in the iPad. Can you help us understand how you think about the business a year, two years down the road in terms of size of your overall business impact on enterprise, education, anything you can give to help us on that front and then a follow-up question.

STEVE JOBS: Well, the iPad is clearly going to affect notebook computers and I think the iPad proves it's not a question of if, it's a question of when and there's a lot of I think development and progress that will occur over the next few years but we're already seeing tremendous interest in iPad from education, and much to my surprise, from business. We haven't pushed it real hard in business, and it's being grabbed out of our hands, and I talk to people every day in business in all kinds of businesses, that are using iPads all the way from Boards of Directors that are shipping iPads around instead of board books down to nurses and doctors in hospitals, and other large and small businesses, so the more time that passes, the more I am convinced that we've got a tiger by the tail here and this is a new model of computing, which we've already got tens of millions of people trained on, with the iPhone, and that lends itself to lots of different aspects of life, both personal, educational and business, so I see it as very general purpose, and I see it as really big, and the timing, one could argue about the timing endlessly, but I don't think one could argue that it's going to happen anyhow.

GENE MUNSTER: Do you think this could be the second biggest business with iPhone?

STEVE JOBS: I try to not predict. I try to just report, so we'll keep you posted.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay, just a quick follow-up, Steve.

STEVE JOBS: As you know, we're already shipping more of them than Macs, after just a few quarters.

GENE MUNSTER: And on the flash side any update on your stance on Flash?

STEVE JOBS: Flash memory, we love Flash memory.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay, Peter just one quick question. Our tracks were you had about three weeks lead time in most of your countries on the iPhone throughout the quarter. You mentioned you could have sold more iPhones. How do you think about what the true demand could have been from the quarter?

TIM COOK: Gene, it's Tim. I think the three weeks you're referring to is the quote that's on the Apple Online store. What I would say, is that the demand in all countries is absolutely staggering and at this point, I can't predict when supply will meet demand. I feel great about our ability to move the supply and the sales up from an 8 million kind of number to over 14n but it's clear last quarter that wasn't enough, and we're obviously working on that, but it will take some time to increase further.

GENE MUNSTER: Were you more supply constrained in the September quarter versus the June quarter, I know totally different dynamics in the quarter, but any perspective on the two quarters?

TIM COOK: It's clear that the iPhone 4 and the announcement of iPhone 4 and the demand for it took the demand to an entirely different level, and we had anticipated a very different level but it's even higher than that.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From RBC Capital Markets we'll go to Michael Abramsky.

MICHAEL ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thanks for taking my question. Steve? Appreciate your commentary. You are the tablet market right now and this is I think the second time now you've come on to talk about, or certainly from one-time during your presentation to talk about competition and I'm just wondering if much like Apple encroaching on RIM's monopoly in enterprise if you think Apple is going to be able to sustain share growth for tablets, amid some of those new competitive headwinds, some of those players may try different things and strategies like tethering and Flash, multi-tasking, less constrictive App restrictions and subsidized pricing, and just wondered if you think that may create itself a more fragmented market or how you see that rolling out with regard to Apple.

STEVE JOBS: I have a hard time envisioning what those strategies you mentioned are. In terms of pricing, so far the little we've seen the tablets with far less functionality are having a hard time matching us in price. Flash hasn't presented any problem at all. Most of the video on the web is available in HTML 5, and having the iTunes media store and over 35,000 Apps on the App Store for iPad dwarfs anything else, and we think we have a very good product here that's going to be hard to match, and we're not done. We're working on a lot of things here for the future, so I don't know exactly what these strategies are and we've priced iPad pretty aggressively, so we're out to win this one.

MICHAEL ABRAMSKY: Okay, thank you and just lastly, SmartPhones, do you see that as a zero sum game?

STEVE JOBS: Well, as you know, the largest market of phones today around the world are non-SmartPhones and so over the next several years, those non-SmartPhones, many of those non-SmartPhones are going to convert to SmartPhones and the pie is going to continue to grow, and I think there will be room for some number of companies to be successful, but eventually as most of those phones do convert to SmartPhones, it will turn into a zero sum game or at least a lot closer to that. But I think right now it's a battle for developers, and battle for the mind share of developers and battle for the mind share of customers and right now iPhone and Android are winning that battle.

MICHAEL ABRAMSKY: Thanks very much, Steve.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mike. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Benjamin Reitzes with Barclays Capital.

BENJAMIN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Yes, good afternoon. Thanks a lot. First, for Peter, can you just talk a little bit about what gross margins, you have gross margins guidance of 36, with component prices still favorable and probably more iPhones being sold sequentially, could you talk about why margins would go down sequentially? It would seem also that you released the revenue on the bumper program and then I have a follow-up for Steve if you don't mind.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Well Ben in providing our guidance we thought about each of those factors you cited and we do see a small sequential decline. This is being primarily driven by a expected mix of new iPods that we've just recently announced, and more iPad sales in which, as Steve said, we've been very aggressive with that with our pricing and are delivering great value to customers so it's the higher mix of those on a sequential basis that I see impacting the, the gross margin slightly.

BENJAMIN REITZES: Okay, and then Steve? Can you just comment on how your hobby is going, Apple TV, and also maybe working, you took the hard drive out of there, and it seems like Apple is moving more to a streaming model for potentially a lot of other things, and I was just wondering what your thoughts were for the Apple TV, maybe that kind of business model proliferating into more products, but I was wondering how Apple TV is going and maybe what you thought going forward.

STEVE JOBS: Well we don't talk about unannounced products but I'm happy to tell you what I know about Apple TV. We have gone through streaming model on Apple TV. It's complete streaming, so all of the content is rented from the iTunes store or is streamed from your computer, or soon to be streamed from your iPhone or iPad with AirPlay and so how is our new model of Apple TV doing? Well, I can report that in just a very short amount of time, we've already sold a quarter million of them, over 250,000, and we're thrilled with that. I think that it's a great product and I think that its $99 price point is very enticing and I think when we get the AirPlay stuff in place before the end of this year it's going to give another big reason for people to buy it, so we're really happy with how its turned out.

BENJAMIN REITZES: Great. Thanks so much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks. First for Peter. How much of the sequential decline in gross margin related to the iPhone in the September quarter and in particularly the bumper program?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Katy, we recorded a revenue deferral of just over $100 million in the September quarter for the bumper program. We would expect to record that in revenue in the December quarter. We did ship a number of bumpers in the September quarter and that is reflected in our gross margin, as is the number that we expect to ship in the December quarter, that's reflected in our guidance as well.

KATY HUBERTY: And just to be clear, is the iPhone the product segment that dropped the most sequentially as it relates to the gross margins? I guess people are just asking what drove the sequential downtick which we haven't seen for some time.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You mean in the September quarter?

KATY HUBERTY: Yes, in the September quarter.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well again, this was not a surprise to us and we on our last conference call highlighted that we would have a higher mix of iPhone 4 sales and we were very aggressive with feature function there, so it had a different gross margin than its predecessor product. We also sold more iPads. Again, we were very aggressive there with our pricing, and we had the bumper program and some one time items that occurred in June that we said wouldn't occur in September, so these were sort of the factors we saw bringing down gross margin, and to some extent each of them did occur in the September quarter, but we ended up doing 50% better than we thought as a result of the commodity market and selling more iPhones.

KATY HUBERTY: Got it, and then Steve, just as a follow-up, it seems like you fundamentally believe that Apple should be able to out ship Android if you add up all of the Mobile Devices over time. What are the key risks you're managing the Company to make sure you don't lose that lead, whether it's distribution or pricing or feature set, what do you think the biggest risks are that you need to watch carefully?

STEVE JOBS: Well, our goal is to make the best devices in the world. It's not to be the biggest. As you know, Nokia is the biggest and we admire them for being able to ship the number of handsets that they do, but we don't aspire to be like them. They are good at being like them. We want to be like us and we want to make the best ones.

So in our part of the market, Android is our biggest competitor. They out shipped us in the June quarter as we were transitioning to iPhone 4. They out shipped us for the first time, and according to Gartner's numbers, which we think are pretty accurate, and so we're waiting to find out what happened in this quarter, and if they, we'll find out I don't know how we'll find out but Gartner will put out some numbers and maybe others will and so one of these days we'll eventually learn, and I imagine we'll be competing with them for quite some time, but we have very different approaches, and we believe in our approach very strongly as providing users a product that just works, and we think there's lots of users that want that in the world and their approach is very different than that, and there may be lots of users that want their approach as well, but we're going to pursue ours and we think that's the winning approach in the end.

KATY HUBERTY: Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: It will come from Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Yes, thank you. I guess this is for both Steve and Tim. I wanted to just better understand your aspirations for iPhone and iPad. Tim, I think I've heard you say look, we think about the Mac business as being one where we make the best products but we're competing against kind of a strong incumbent power and Microsoft, and we don't aspire to have high market share and your iPod business it was kind of the opposite. You had very high volume, you drove price points down to entry points in the marketplace and you have more than 50% market share globally.

I think when we've talked about it in the past, you've actually said you viewed the iPhone business as being more akin to the iPod business in terms of your aspirations. Steve, it sounded like that wasn't really consistent with what you said. You said very clearly we don't want to be Nokia. We just want to make good phones, so perhaps you can help me better understand how we should think about your aspiration for both the iPhone and the iPad.

Steve, you also made a comment about seven inch screens aren't going to cut it, and implying that you're not going to go down to those lower price points. Is your aspiration for iPhone and iPad to be volume players, and market leaders, or is it simply to make good products and if you have smaller share like you do in Mac, that's fine. Can you help me with that please?

STEVE JOBS: Sure, and I'll let Tim say what he's going to say too. First of all, Nokia makes $50 handsets, and we don't know how to make a great SmartPhone for $50. We aren't smart enough to figure that one out yet, but believe me, I'll let you know when we do, so our goal is to make really breakthrough great products, make the best products in every industry that we compete in, and to drive the costs down, while constantly making the products better at the same time.

That's what we did with iPod. We updated our products many times every year with better functionality, often times at the same price and sometimes at a lower price and it was the relentless improvement at in some cases, a lower price, that was able to beat our competition, and yield the market share that it did, and as you know, we have a very low market share in the phone market in the single digits, in terms of all the handsets and we have a very high market share now in tablets, because we're the first mover, but we don't think about it that way.

The reason we wouldn't make a seven inch tablet isn't because we don't want to hit a price point. It's because we don't think you can make a great tablet with a seven inch screen. We think it's too small to express the software that people want to put on these things, and we think as a software-driven Company, we think about the software strategies first, and we know that software developers aren't going to deal real well with all these different size products when they have to redo their software every time a screen size changes, and they aren't going to deal well with products where they can't put enough elements on the screen to build the kind of Apps they want to build.

So when we make decisions on seven inch tablets, it's not about cost. It's about the value of the product when you factor in the software. You see what I'm getting at? So we're all about making the best products at aggressive prices, and that's what we will do and that's what we've done with the iPod and that's what we will do with the iPad as well.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Tim, maybe you want to comment. If I could push you on that, Steve. So if the market starts to move towards somewhat lower functionality SmartPhones in that migration of non-SmartPhones to SmartPhones that you talked about, if you market starts to move to dramatically lower price points and you feel you can't make an appropriate product that is good at those price points, you will cede share under those circumstances, do I understand it correctly?

STEVE JOBS: See, you're looking at it wrong. You're looking at it as a hardware person in a fragmented world. You're looking at it as a hardware manufacture that doesn't really know much about software, who doesn't think about an integrated product but assumes the software will somehow take care of itself, and you're sitting around saying well, how can we make this cheaper? Well we can put a smaller screen on it and a slower processor and less memory, and you assume that the software will somehow just come alive on this product that you're dreaming of.

But it won't, because these App developers have taken advantage of the products that came before with faster processors, with larger screens, with more capabilities that they can take advantage of to make better Apps for customers, and they aren't, it's a hard one because it throws you right back into the beginning of that chicken and egg problem again, to change all of the assumptions on those developers. Most of them will not follow you. Most of them will say, I'm sorry but I'm not going to go back and write a watered down version of my App just because you've got this phone that you can sell for $50 less, and you're begging me to write software for it.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay, one more if I may, please, Steve. You now have more than $50 billion in cash, you're generating more than $20 billion a year in cash, it rests very comfortable on your balance sheet earning less than 1% interest. What is your aspiration for that cash and why are you not more open to returning some of that cash to shareholders in the form of buybacks or dividends?

STEVE JOBS: Of course that's been suggested to us. We strongly believe that one or more very strategic opportunities may come along, that we can take, that we're in a unique position to take advantage of, because of our strong cash position, and I think we've got, we've demonstrated a really strong track record of being very disciplined with the use of our cash. We don't let it turn a hole in our pocket. We don't allow it to motivate us to do stupid acquisitions, and so I think that we would like to continue to keep our powder dry, because we do feel that there are one or more strategic opportunities in the future. That's the biggest reason. And there's other reasons as well that we could go into, but that's the biggest one.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Cross Research, we'll hear from Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much. Steve and Tim, could you talk a little bit about the corporate opportunity, and what I'm looking for is sort of how you're thinking about Apple as its been positioned over the last several years sort of more of a consumer-focused, SMB-focused Company but clearly there's a huge opportunity with the iPad and the iPhone and probably at some point the Mac into the corporate world, so how do you think about your positioning from a Marketing standpoint, a sales standpoint. Any changes you need to make or how are you sort of addressing this?

TIM COOK: Shannon, it's Tim. On the iPad, there have been some comments about this earlier just to give you some stats here, about two-thirds of the Fortune 100 are deploying or piloting iPad, and I don't know about you but I've never seen an adoption rate like this in my life in enterprise. Enterprise is historically much slower moving on adoption. We're also seeing the iPad begin to pick up interest in K-12 which is another market that historically adopts very slowly, and so the early data points look great, and as a matter of fact we have built and are building additional capacity internally in the sales organizations to call on businesses, and obviously we have a huge amount of salespeople already that are calling on education institutions.

We're also enabling and training our carrier partners to do the same, and you probably saw an announcement last week with AT&T and that's a direct result of customers wanting to buy the iPad on a post-pay type plan, and so we're putting a lot of energy in those. IPhone has followed a trajectory that gets into the same kinds of numbers as I've quoted on iPad where a little bit higher by now is 85% of the Fortune 100 are deploying or piloting iPhone so this isn't a hobby or something we're doing lightly. We put enormous energy in the Company, in engineering, in software and it built a number of enterprise features in the OS. You've seen that get better and better as we have stepped through the different OS releases and we're building the sales capability for those groups as well. It's clear that both the phone and the iPad have an enormous opportunity.

The Mac is also increasingly getting pulled into an enterprise where the employees are able to select, and of course this is a trend that we like to see and that we think will continue in larger ways but when people are given the choice, they would prefer a Mac and so Macs are being pulled in as well. We don't have as much distribution effort on that but as we see if it gets larger, we will move accordingly. The great thing is that we're maintaining our focus on the consumer and the consumer is the forefront on thinking of all of our products and it's these consumers in the enterprise so to speak that are pulling these products in and so we're not developing two different lines like many companies do and have enterprise versions and consumer versions. This is another part of our simplistic approach to things that I think will pay us great dividend and is already starting to do so.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, and then, thank you. I had a follow-up for Peter. I'm getting substantial questions as I'm sure everybody on this call is just about gross margins, so I guess one of the questions I have is as you're seeing the increase in volume, is there any kind of a change in terms of the scale leverage you have from a manufacturing standpoint, or I know you guided to lower gross margins but the Street of course was higher so just anything you can give us in terms of color on the gross margins with the iPhone and iPhone 4 in terms of how that's panning out and how we should think about start up costs that were associated with both that as well as the iPad. Just any color would be great. Thank you.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Well Shannon, we don't product product-specific gross margins but we are always working aggressively to lower our cost whether it's the iPhone or any of our other products and I think we have a very good track record in this regard and we were happy with our gross margins in the September quarter. They were ahead of what we thought and we see them being just down slightly in the December quarter as we ship more iPods where we've been quite aggressive, and continue to ship more iPads as well.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon.

OPERATOR: We have the next question please? Our next question will come from Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks very much. I'm interested to understand demand from new carriers to pick up iPhone 4 and whether or not you're seeing pressure on subsidies as you look to extend your distribution network on the phone business.

TIM COOK: Chris, the pressure that I'm getting is on supply. I'm getting virtually everyone we're doing business with wants more supply, so that's the pressure that I feel.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Can you give us some color, sorry if I missed it, as I jumped on late but some color in terms of where you are from a number of carriers with iPhone 4, how did you end the quarter, do you have targets for the December quarter in terms of carrier penetration with existing relationships?

TIM COOK: If you count at the country level, we have about 166 relationships that we ended the quarter with, and about 89 countries, and so that's a significant expansion across the last year as we and many countries went from a single carrier relationship to more than one carrier. The latest country that we've done that in, or that we've announced that in, is Germany and we will be launching both with Vodafone and M2 together with our existing partner T-Mobile in Germany later this month.

CHRIS WHITMORE: In all 166 of those carriers have the phone 4 by year-end, is that the target?

TIM COOK: With iPhone 4, we're in 85 of those 89 countries and I believe that we will be in all 89 by the end of the year.

CHRIS WHITMORE: And what is your experience been when you're gone non-exclusive from a subsidy and margin standpoint on the phone? Have you had to give anything up in the past?

TIM COOK: We don't give specific information out on margins but I think you can look at our ASPs and see that they've generally stayed above $600, and that's despite opening up several markets from an exclusive market to a non-exclusive market.

CHRIS WHITMORE: A question for Steve. Steve? You discussed competitors not matching Apple's price points so far in the tablet space. Why do you think you have an advantage on the price point for iPad versus the PC manufactures?

STEVE JOBS: Well, I think part of it is because we engineer so much of it ourselves, the A4 chip inside it is an Apple creation. Everything again as I mentioned from the battery chemistry to the enclosures and we've learned a lot. We've learned a lot from what we've done on iPods and iPhones and we're a very high volume consumer electronics manufacture, so I think we've learned a lot, we've developed a lot of our own components where others have to buy them on the market, with middlemen getting their cut of things and I think we're systems architects and know how to build systems in a very efficient way, so I think this is a product we've been training for the last decade.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Chris and thanks to everyone for joining us today. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store, a Webcast on Apple.com/Investor and via telephones and the numbers are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and the confirmation code is 1034928. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5 PM Pacific Time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896 and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions, Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420 and thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation .

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
itablcm : Tablet Computers | ismart : Smart Phones | i34542 : Audio/Video Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302011 : Portable/Notebook Computers | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101101e6ai0018k
  


 HD
 Q3  2010 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,290 words
   PD
20 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Apple Incorporated third quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is CFO Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by Apple's COO, Tim Cook, and Treasurer Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session. Please note some of the information will consist of forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those regarding revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast.

   TD
For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2009 as amended, the forms 10-Q for the first two quarters of fiscal 2010 and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP OF FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are extremely pleased to report outstanding results for the June quarter. During the quarter, we began shipping iPad to millions of delighted customers in ten countries, we launched a very popular iPhone 4, we shipped iOS4 with many great new features, and set a new all time record for quarterly Mac sales. We're shipping the best products in Apple's history, and the response from our customers has been terrific. And as a result, we're thrilled to announce today our highest quarterly revenue ever, surpassing the previous record set in the most recent holiday quarter.

Revenue was $15.7 billion, an increase of $6 billion or 61% over the prior June quarter's results. The tremendous revenue growth was driven primarily by the very successful lunch of iPad, in addition to strong sales of iPhone and Mac. Operating margin was $4.23 billion, representing 27% of revenue. Net income was $3.25 billion, up 78% over the year ago quarter, and earnings per share were $3.51.

Turning to the details of our results, I would like to begin with our Mac products and services. We generated record quarterly sales of 3.47 million Macs, exceeding the previous record established in the most recent December quarter by over 100,000. This represents 33% year-over-year growth, compared to IDC's latest published estimate of 22% growth for the market overall in the June quarter. We are pleased to have out grown the global market in both the desktop and portable categories.

We experienced strong double-digit Mac growth in each of our geographies, led by both the continued momentum of iMac and the very popular MacBook Pro family, which was updated in April with faster processors, more powerful graphics, and even longer battery life. We're also pleased to report record Mac sales in our US education institution business, despite state budget constraints. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Moving on to our music products, we told 9.4 million iPods compared to 10.2 million in the year ago quarter. Sales of iPod Touch continue to be very strong, with sales growing 48% year-over-year. The continued mix shift towards iPod Touch resulted in an overall iPod ASP increase of 12%, generating total iPod revenue growth of 4%. iPod's share of the US market for mp3 players remains at over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by NPD. iPod also continues to be the top selling mp3 player and to gain share internationally, year over year, in every country we track, based on the latest data published by GFK.

The iTunes store had another great quarter, with revenue exceeding $1 billion, and growing 25% year-over-year. The App Store continues to be an unparalleled success with more than 225,000 apps available, including more than 11,000 apps specifically for iPad. iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPad users have downloaded over 5 billion apps from the App Store. We ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory.

I would now like to turn to iPhone. we were very pleased with iPhone sales of 8.4 million including over 1.7 million iPhone 4s in the initial five countries where it was launched. This represents 61% year-over-year growth and is considerably higher than IDC's latest published estimate of 38% growth for the global smartphone market overall in the June quarter. Customers are loving the great new features of iPhone 4, including face time for video calling, the high resolution retina display, HD video recording, and the beautiful new glass and stainless steel design.

Recognized revenue from the iPhone handset sales, accessory sales and carrier payments was $5.33 billion during the quarter, compared to $3.06 billion in the year ago quarter, an increase of 74%. The sales value of iPhones alone was about $5 billion, which yields an ASP of about $595. At the end of the June quarter, we had iPhone distribution with 154 carriers in 88 countries. We continued to experience very strong year-over-year growth, particularly in Asia, Europe, and Japan.

Additionally, we continue to be very pleased with strong sales growth from both longstanding and new carrier partners. During the quarter, we surpassed cumulative sales of 100 million iOS devices. Response to the iOS4 since its June 21st launch has been very favorable, with customers and reviewers praising its many new features, including multitasking, folders, enhanced mail and deeper enterprise support.

Turning to iPad, we're off to an amazing start, and we're extremely pleased with customer response and sales to date. Through the end of the June quarter, we shipped 3.27 million iPads to customers in ten countries. Recognized revenue from sales of iPad and iPad accessories during the quarter was $2.17 billion. The sales value of iPads alone was almost $2.1 billion which yields ASP of about $640. Feedback from customers continues to be outstanding, as more and more of them experienced iPad and take advantage of its multi-touch user interface, large screen and high quality graphics to browse the web, read and send email, read E-books and much more. We look forward to bringing iPad to customers in nine additional countries on July 23rd.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores which had an outstanding quarter, generating record revenue and customer traffic. Retail revenue was $2.58 billion compared to $1.49 billion in the year ago quarter, an increase of 73%. Our store sold 677,000 Macs, compared to 492,000 Macs in the year ago quarter, an increase of 38%. About half the Macs sold in our stores during the June quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before. We opened seven new stores during the quarter, including four in the US, two in Australia, and one in Canada, ending with 293 stores.

With an average of 287 stores open during the June quarter, average revenue per store was $9 million compared to $5.9 million in the year ago quarter. Retail segment margin was $593 million compared to $387 million in the year ago quarter. We hosted a record 60.5 million visitors in our stores during the quarter compared to 38.6 million visitors in the year ago quarter, an increase of 57%. We expect to open 24 stores this quarter, including our fabulous new stores in Paris and Shanghai which opened earlier this month, our Covent Garden store in London, and our first two stores in Spain to be opened in Barcelona and Madrid.

Total company gross margin was 39.1%, which was 310 basis points above our guidance. This difference was driven by two categories of factors. The first category accounted for a little over half of the difference. When we provided our guidance for the June quarter, we identified five things that we expected to drive the sequential decline in gross margin from the March to June quarters. These were the first quarter of iPad sales, a stronger US dollar, our portable Mac transition, the beginning of the education buying season, and the iPhone 4 transition. Collectively, these things did have an impact sequentially, but to a lesser extent than we had anticipated in our guidance.

The second category of factors which accounted for the remainder of the difference consisted of unanticipated favorable adjustments, as well as leverage on the higher than expected revenue. Operating expenses were $1.9 billion and included $181 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E for the quarter was $58 million.

Our tax rate for the quarter was 24.2%, about three points below our guidance as a result of two factors. First, we had a better mix of foreign earnings, and this accounted for about two-thirds of the difference. Second, we finalized favorably some prior year US tax audits, accounting for the remainder of the difference. As a result of the better mix of foreign earnings, we have lowered our expected fourth quarter tax rate from 27% to about 26.5%.

Turning to cash, our cash plus short-term and long-term marketable securities totaled $45.8 billion at the end of the June quarter compared to $41.7 billion at the end of the March quarter, an increase of $4.1 billion. Cash flow from operations was $4.8 billion. Our investment priority for cash continues to be preservation of capital, and we are continuing to focus on relatively short-dated, high quality investments, and remain comfortable with our investment portfolio.

Looking ahead to the September quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. As we announced on Friday, we will be offering free cases to all customer who is have purchased an iPhone 4 through September 30th. As a result, we will be deferring revenue corresponding to the value of the cases that have yet to be ordered by or delivered to eligible customers under this offer as of the end of the September quarter. We estimate this deferral to be about $175 million, and we expect this September quarter deferral to be recognized as revenue in the December quarter. We will recognize the cost of the cases upon delivery to our customers.

We expect revenue to be about $18 billion compared to $12.2 billion in the September quarter last year. We expect gross margin to be about 35% reflecting approximately 40 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect most of the sequential decline to be due to a higher mix of iPhone 4 and iPad sales, which have higher cost structures and provide great value to our customers, as well as the revenue deferral impact of the iPhone 4 case offer. To a lesser extent, we expect the sequential decline to be driven by back-to-school promotion and the absence of the favorable adjustments that benefited gross margin in the June quarter. We expect OpEx to be about $2 billion including about $195 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OI&E to be about $50 million, reflective of the short-term interest rate environment, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.5%. We are targeting EPS of about $3.44.

In closing, we're thrilled with our record June quarter revenue and strong financial performance. we're very pleased with sales of iPad and iPhone 4. We're working hard on catching up with customer demand for these great products, and we look forward to rolling them out to even more customers and more countries this quarter. We are very pleased with the market share gains for our iPhones, Macs and iPods, and remain very confident in our new product pipeline. With that, I would like to open the call to questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your first question will come from Shannon Cross with Cross research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you very much, and good afternoon. Can you talk a bit about what you're hearing from Corporations on their thoughts on the iPhone, the iPad, and Macs, just what you are seeing in terms of corporate adoption?

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Hi, Shannon. It is Tim. If you look at the iPhone, we're now up to more than 80% of the Fortune 100 that are deploying or piloting the iPhone, and we also see very good momentum in the Fortune 500. In fact, over 60% of the Fortune 500 are deploying or piloting iPhone. This is also transcending into education institutions, and we see around 400 higher education institutions which have approved the iPhone for faculty, staff and students. And so iPhone is really taking off, and iOS4 was another help in doing that.

In terms of the Macintosh, you can see that Mac had an incredible quarter. We're still selling principally to consumer and education, but we are seeing businesses with increasing interest in the Mac. it is more difficult to measure because many of those sales are filled through the channel. We're obviously thrilled with growing 33% year-on-year.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. The iPad?

TIM COOK: The iPad, very surprisingly in the first quarter, so in the first 90 days, we already have 50% of the Fortune 500 that are deploying or testing the iPad. It is incredible

SHANNON CROSS: That's great

TIM COOK: That's the Fortune 100. Excuse me.

SHANNON CROSS: That's great. I had a follow-up for Peter. When you talked about the gross margin upside this quarter you mentioned about half came from those five areas performing better than you had expected. Can you give us any more specifics on why exactly those areas were better than you anticipated?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Shannon, the largest contributors were higher iPhone sales than we had included in our guidance, and also higher accessory sales as well.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, great. Thank you

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Can we have the next question, please

OPERATOR: That will come from Richard Gardner with Citigroup

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. Tim, I wanted to start just by asking to you give us a supply/demand breakdown for each of the product categories if you would, and talk about any notable supply constraints within each product line, and how severe they are and when you expect them to be alleviated?

TIM COOK: Okay. Rich, starting with the Mac there were no significant supply/demand issues during the quarter, and there are none currently. On the iPod, it is the same, none significant last quarter and none currently. The iPad and the iPhone are significantly different.

Both of these products, the iPad and specifically the iPhone 4, we had backlog at the end of the last quarter that we were not able to fill, and currently we are still selling both of those products as fast as we can make them. We still are quoting longer lead times than we would like, and we're working around the clock to try to get supply/demand in balance. In the scheme of things, it is a good problem to have.

RICHARD GARDNER: Tim, are you willing to provide I guess any additional color on what the sources of constraint are and when you expect those to be alleviated or is it just simply a demand problem and not so much a supply problem?

TIM COOK: I don't think high demand is never a problem, but on the iPad, as I mentioned last quarter, we went into the iPad thinking that planning a 1 million per month capacity was a very bold move, and in fact if you look at the -- a lot of the industry analysts we're predicting that we would only sell somewhere around that number for the whole calendar year. As you know, we did 1 million the first month and the second million the second month and the third million the third month, and so basically what we're doing is we're increasing capacity as quickly as we can, and there is a number of things that we have to increase in order to do that.

But I am fairly confident that we will be able to increase the capacity. It is not a situation where there is something profound that we can't eventually increase. The iPhone, we just started ramping it in June. We had very limited days last quarter. As you know, we launched on the 24th, and the quarter ended on the 26th, and we're still ramping and increasing volume, but again there is not a specific thing that is an overwhelming gate, it is just a matter of getting up the ramp

RICHARD GARDNER: If I could, Peter, you mentioned actually the mix of iPhone 4 and iPad sales as a negative for gross margin this coming quarter, and iPhone 4, well, iPhone in general I guess has typically had margins that are well above the corporate average. Just wondering why you would put that on the negative side of the ledger for gross margin for September and was hoping you could tell us -- give us a little more detail on the adjustments that possibly affected the gross margin in June.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Let me start with your second question. I don't want to go into a lot of specificity there, but we did have some adjustments that occurred in our supply chain and some other product costs that benefited us in June. They were the larger contributor of the second set of factors that I outlined for you. As regards our gross margin for the September quarter, we just introduced the iPad and the iPhone 4. We are delivering great value to customers, and these products have higher cost structures. In the case of the iPhone 4 it has a higher cost structure than the predecessor product that we were shipping, so while the margin there is attractive, on a sequential basis we have been pretty aggressive here with pricing and it is going to play through a bit on the margin one.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Rich, can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Piper Jaffray, we'll hear from Gene Munster

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon and congratulations. The iPhone number was strong despite or a lot of moving parts in the channel in terms of inventory this quarter versus a year ago when you launched the 3GS. Can you talk a little bit about what those dynamics were and how they impacted the 8.4 million unit number you printed?

TIM COOK: Gene, it is Tim. We greatly reduced shipments of the previous generation iPhone beginning around June 7th, which was our Worldwide Developer's Conference, and coincided with the announcement of the iPhone 4, but as you probably know, we did not launch the iPhone 4 and the new 8 gigabyte 3GS until June 24th, which was only three days before the end of the quarter. The result of that was that we had significantly lower sales after June the 7th for that period of time, as we waited on the official launch. In fact, if you looked at our year-over-year growth rate prior to June 7th, it was around 90%.

As you know, we exited the quarter, you can see this from the data sheets. We exited the quarter with total iPhone sales up 61%, so basically we did a channel adjustment. We pulled the previous generation of iPhones down significantly in channel inventory. We increased from the iPhone 4 inventory and the inventory of the 8 gigabyte 3GS, and the net reduction in the channel was about a quarter of a million units from the beginning of the quarter. I would remind you that as you probably guessed the run rate associated with the sales of the new product are larger than the run rate associated with the sales of the old product, and so in terms of any kind of weeks of inventory, it would be much less where we were running before.

GENE MUNSTER: So last quarter I think your comment was you had about 2.7 million units in the channel. Is that correct?

TIM COOK: That's right. We ended with about 2.45. if you look at the ins and outs in that just to give you the numbers, the previous generation drawdown by the end of the quarter was slightly less than 1.3 million, and the combination of iPhone 4 and iPhone 3GS was up about a million, and the vast, vast majority of that million was in transit at the end of the quarter, not available for sale.

GENE MUNSTER: So is it safe to say that you would have printed around 8.7 million iPhones if assuming more of a normalized inventory levels throughout the quarter?

TIM COOK: If we would have held inventory flat from the beginning of the quarter, we would have done a little over 250,000 more units. However, what we would have really wanted to do is the if we had the opportunity to do it quite frankly is to take inventory up quarter over quarter beginning of the quarter to end of the quarter because the sales run rate was larger at the end of the quarter with the new product.

GENE MUNSTER: Quickly, I have a philosophical question that I can understand why you run out of products and the iPad comes out and it is the first time are you doing it, but these shortages that we have right out of the gate, can you just give us any insight? There is obviously a lot of talk that you do this just to create buzz. I suspect that's not the case, but can you give us any insight into a company that understands how to build products as well as you do that we still have these problems going into those product launches?

TIM COOK: On the -- let me answer in that two different ways. If you look at the previous generation product, we call the number of units that we're going to sell many weeks beforehand, and when we run out, we run out. Quite frankly, we tend to manage that aggressively on purpose, because we would rather the market move very quickly to the new product. That's what happened here, and frankly speaking, I am glad that it happened, and it is exactly the way that we want to manage it.

In terms of the new product, we do not purposely create a shortage for buzz. I am not sure where that comes from. That's certainly not our objective. We would like to fill every customer's order as quickly as we can. The demand for iPhone 4 is absolutely stunning. We're working very hard to catch up with demand, and I can't predict when that will occur, but I can tell you that everyone is working very hard to do it

GENE MUNSTER: Last question and I will turn it over. Since the issues with the antenna have you seen any changes in demand or what changes have you seen in demand for iPhone 4?

TIM COOK: Gene, let me be very clear on this. We're selling every unit we can make currently.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good afternoon. Thanks. I guess I want to elaborate on that last question a little more, Tim. So you haven't seen any slowdown in order rates online or your lead times remain the same, and is that what you mean you haven't seen any slowdown in order rates or any increase in returns that are noticeable in the marketplace?

TIM COOK: My phone is ringing off the hook for people that want more supply. So, right now, it is hard to test the real question that you are asking about, is there an effect or not, because we're selling every one that we can make, and you can't run the experiment both ways.

BEN REITZES: On the return issue, is there anything noticeable, maybe I will tease the answer because we're not seeing a huge blip up but are you?

TIM COOK: The returns that we have seen on the iPhone 4 are less than the iPhone 3GS, as Steve shared in the presentation on Friday, and the ones for this specific issue are extremely small.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Moving on with regard to the iPad, when do you think supply and demand will be in balance? Maybe if you can refer back to your experience with other products that have soaring demand and when you got the equilibrium or is there any other experience that's comparable that you can give us any indication of when you feel you could be in equilibrium for such a hot product?

TIM COOK: We honestly don't know is the answer. We have been pleasantly surprised at how fast this product has gotten out of the chute. If you look at how long it took us to sell the first million iPods, the 20 plus months versus the one month of iPad, it is a phenomenal difference.

It is not following a typical early adopter curve and then taking a long time to cross into the mainstream. So I don't know how high is high. Our guts tell us this market is very big, and we believe that iPad is really defining the market, and we to want take full advantage of it, and so we are investing enormous time and resource in increasing our capability and getting iPad out to as many people as we can.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Then just finally maybe, Peter, for you are you surprised on how many people want the 3G product for the iPad and since you launched that product what is the split between 3G and Wi-Fi?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, we don't -- we're not going to disclose the splits between that, but all of the models have been very popular. I commented in my prepared remarks and Tim just did, the demand has just been amazing, and this is off to an incredible start, and overall ASP in the June quarter for iPad was about $640

BEN REITZES: Just would seem like that's the base ASP because now have you a better mix of 3Gs, so that might be the low point. But okay, I will cede the floor. Thank you so much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll move to Brian Marshall with Gleacher & Company.

BRIAN MARSHALL, ANALYST, GLEACHER & COMPANY: Thanks. Nice quarter. Question with regards to the upside that you saw in the Mac as well as the iPhone units. That's pretty impressive considering iPad came in very strongly this quarter as well, so do you have any updated thoughts kind of longer term philosophical perspective about how the iPad will potentially cannibalize or take away some dollars from some of your other product lines going forward?

TIM COOK: It is a very good question, and it is one that we do talk about internally. We had only been selling for three months, and so I think the real answer is that it is too early to tell. If you do look at the quarter that we just finished, we are thrilled that we reported our best Mac quarter ever in the same quarter that iPad sold almost 3.3 million units, and so for us it is a jaw dropper.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Was wondering if you can give us any updates on how the iAd business is coming to fruition here?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We have just launched the iAd in the early part of July. We're going to learn a lot this calendar year and build a foundation for the future, and beyond that, I don't have any further specifics to share with you today.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Okay. Final question, can you give us an update on how the data center build in coming along in North Carolina and that's it. Thank you

PETER OPPENHEIMER: North Carolina is on schedule. Everything is going fine.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Can you share with the schedule is with us, Peter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We expect to complete it by the end of the calendar year and begin to use it.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Great. Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Brian. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you. I want to revisit the gross margin question, please. Peter, on your guidance last quarter, you basically said about a quarter of the expected sequential decline in gross margins was expected to come from iPads, about 150 basis points. Relative to your expectation on that, what kind of impact did iPad have on a gross margins versus your guidance, and why may it have been different?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Toni, the factors that we cited last quarter, largely on a collective basis, were as we thought, and we did about 310 basis points better than we had guided to, and a little more than half of that was those five factors want being quite as deep as we thought, and the biggest piece of that difference really came from selling more iPhones and selling accessories, so the other factors were generally about what we thought they would be.

TONI SACCONAGHI: So if we think about it, you were expecting to be down about 570 basis points, you were down about 260 basis points, but you had mentioned you had a favorable benefit as well as some operating leverage. What was the collective impact of those two positive forces of operating leverage in favorable? So were you down? You thought you would be down 570 from those factors and you were down 400 to 450, and then you had favorable impact of 150 from the other two factors, or how do we think about that in basis points?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We were ahead of what we thought by about 310 basis points, a little more than half of that came from the five factors not being quite as deep as we thought, and it was mostly selling more iPhones and more accessories that drove that. A little less than half the 310 basis points occurred from the unanticipated favorable adjustments and the leverage on the higher revenue, and the favorable adjustments were the bigger piece of that second group.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you. That's helpful. On the favorable adjustments, can you comment on whether they were one-time and whether they were discretionary, any more color you can provide on those?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't expect the ones that we benefited from to reoccur, and again I don't want to be specific, but these were things that really just occurred in our supply chain and with other product costs.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And on the -- Tim, you talked a little bit about channel inventory. It sounds like and correct me if I'm wrong, that you might have 1.4 million in existing channel inventory of the older 3GS, the 16 and the 32 gig. Is that a correct, and where and how are those being sold currently?

TIM COOK: Toni, we had about 1.4 on June 26th which was the end of the fiscal quarter. Currently we have materially less than that. Those are being sold at basically most not all but most of the -- in most of the countries that is we sell the 3GS in.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Have you been able to take up that so since the end of the quarter the June 26th have you had any progress in increasing your total channel inventory or you feel like you are fighting a losing battle?

TIM COOK: I never feel like I am fighting a losing battle. On iPhone 4, we are selling things as quickly as we make them, and so, we have more work to do there.

TONI SACCONAGHI: I guess that implication would be if you have taken down inventory of the non-iPhone 4 product, and you are selling them as quickly as you can, that would actually suggest your total inventory would be even lower now than it was on June 26th?

TIM COOK: Keep in mind we also sell the iPhone 3GS 8 gig, that's a new model in the line. So the 1.4 million that I was referring to that I assumed that you were also referring to or the iPhone 3GS units were in the previous generation

TONI SACCONAGHI: Correct. Thank you.

TIM COOK: You would have to look at the whole line.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Final question. You had talked a little bit about cannibalization of iPad on Macs and I know you talked about the iPod and iPod Touch on a year-over-year basis, but sequentially, your ASPs fell quite a bit on the iPod business. Do you think there may be any cannibalization of iPad on iPod Touches and specifically can you comment on whether iPod Touch was a higher percentage of units sold or actually if you sold higher percentage of units sold in Q3 versus Q2?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Toni, our iPod ASPs were down about $7 sequentially, and that really was driven by the start of the back-to-school promotion which we began in the month of June, and a stronger US dollar. We did mix on a year-over-year basis up into iPod Touch, and I am sorry, I don't have on a sequential basis the Touch mix in front of me.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi. Thank you. I had a couple as well. When you were using the accrual counting or deferred accounting rather on the iPhone, the deferred balance indicated that margins went up over time. Would you anticipate that the iPad margins would increase as we move forward?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Look, we were purposely aggressive when we launched the iPad because we absolutely believed that we had a great product and we had a great first mover advantage, so we were aggressive coming out of the chute, and as both Tim and I have commented, we are selling them as quickly as we can make them. I think it was a very, very good way to launch the product for us. We are always working to become more efficient and to ride down the cost curves, and I don't see that motivation being any different on the iPad than it is on our other products.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. A few to follow up. Peter, is there any comments that you could make on the impact of the bumpers? I know you said you were incurring the costs in the September quarter. Is there any way to quantify in terms of a basis points or any other metric that you can give us for the impact in the September quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, there are two impacts of this. The first is, we will need to defer revenue for the iPhone 4s that we sell where we have not delivered the bumpers and where we have not heard from the customers wanting to place an order, and I expect the accrual that we'll need to make, which is a revenue accrual with no costs to be about $175 million in the September quarter, and I would expect to have that be recorded as revenue in the December quarter. We will expense the cost of the bumpers when we ship them to customers, and our most important objective there is to take care of every customer and delight them.

KEITH BACHMAN: I guess the last question for me then is directed to Tim if I could. Android-based shipments are certainly increasing and gaining a lot of press. I wonder if you guys can give any color about where you might be seeing Android as competition to the iPhone family in terms of GO or customer sets or any other color there, and that's my last question. Thank you.

TIM COOK: I haven't seen the android results for June since it is a sum of several companies' shipments, but iPhone sales were up 61% in the June quarter despite the inventory drawdown and the transition that we spoke about. That's against the IDC estimate of smartphone market growth of 38%, so we're growing substantially faster than the market. Thanks very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Keith. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From RBC Capital Markets, we'll hear from Mike Abramsky

MICHAEL ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks very much. Tim, do you think there has been some sort of I think still some questions around sustainability of iPad demand after early adopters and international channel fill, even with new product cycles given that it is still a relatively new category, and I am wondering what your thoughts are there and also given that there may be some competitive subsidized 3G tablets coming in the fall. How do you see that potentially impacting or not the iPod pricing strategy or demand? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Mike, the only thing I can share right now is that on iPad we are absolutely selling every unit that we can make, and it looks good in every country that we have launched it in so far, and we're excited about launching it in additional countries this coming weekend. Anecdotally, it does seem to me that it is beyond an early adopter stage already as I indicated earlier, just based on watching the people that are using it, and so it is the fastest that that has happened in any product I know of, or have ever been involved with. So I think it is extremely unique and extremely special.

In terms of what the competition does, I don't know what they will do, and what they will try. It is no secret that everybody is trying to work on something to come out with it, but we're extremely happy with our competitive position, and the business model that we have if you look at the US as an example since everybody can look at that model, where you have a very affordable rate structure that starts at $15 with no commitment at all, and a very aggressive device price, that seems to be what the end-user really desires, and so, yes, somebody could come in and jack the rate plans way up and subsidize the -- I am not so sure that people are really going to want another contract. We'll see if somebody tries that and we'll both learn. Right now we're thrilled with our position.

MICHAEL ABRAMSKY: Thanks, Tim

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mike. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Charles Wolf with Needham & Company.

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO: Yes, in the past, iPhone software developers have complained not about the App Store rules but the fact that they were arbitrary. Has Apple done anything to address this issue?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Charlie, I think that we are always looking to make our developers happy. We have over 225,000 apps on the store with over 5 billion downloads. We were thrilled to have very recently crossed $1 billion in payments to our developers, and we have just launched iAd with the primary objective of developing another revenue stream for them, so we care deeply about our developers and want to have many, many great apps for our iOS products and the success we've had on the store today is unparalleled.

TIM COOK: Charlie, I would just add the vast majority of apps are approved within seven days of their submission and that many of the apps that aren't approved have bugs in them, and are eventually resubmitted and approved, and we obviously I think all of us want to ensure that pornography and graphic scenes don't make their way to the platform, and so I think these are things that I realize not 100% of everybody is going to agree, but I think many of us would want those to occur.

CHARLES WOLF: Well, just asking the question slightly differently, do you think the concern of developers is really misplaced?

TIM COOK: We value the input of every developer and very much listen to them and modify our programs accordingly when it is appropriate to do that. I am not going to say every concern out there is misplaced. We're very open to any kind of feedback.

CHARLES WOLF: Thanks, Tim

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Charlie. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That question will come from Shaw with Kaufman Brothers

SHAW WU, ANALYST, KAUFMAN BROTHERS: Thanks. I have two questions. First, just on your desktop Mac business, normally it is up sequentially from March to June and I understand there is a secular trend towards portables. Is there anything else, any color you can share there that's occurring?

TIM COOK: Shaw, it is Tim. You have a little ying and yang when we announce new portables. You will see a substantial move to portables, and when there is not a new desktop announced at the same time, and so I think that is more of what we saw than anything else, but, yes, there is clearly a move to mobility, and in the long, long, long run I think will you see portables grow as a percentage of mix continually.

SHAW WU: Thanks for the color. Second question is just on face time, you talked about how you wanted to turn that into an industry standard. Just wondering how you plan to roll that out? will it be available on Windows? I imagine today it is on the iPhone. What about on the Mac? Any color you can share there? thanks.

TIM COOK: Shaw, I want to make sure we get to all of the financial related questions today, so I am going to talk that one for another day

SHAW WU: Okay. Thanks

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shaw. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Morgan Stanley, Katy Huberty

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good afternoon. Tim, when Peter was walking through the iPhone business, he said the iPhone revenues and units were particularly strong in the Asia, Europe and Japan. Would love your 2 cents as to why North America isn't on that list. Are we hitting law of large numbers, or is there anything you can do to really reaccelerate the growth in the domestic market?

TIM COOK: I don't think we're hitting the law of large numbers. I think that the market over time will increasingly -- the phone market will increasingly become a Smartphone market, and Steve said that long ago, and we have seen that that forecast has come true as the Smartphone market continues to grow at multiples of the basic handset market that is shrinking. I think we have a lot of opportunity domestically and in the other parts of the Americas. I think Peter's comment was more that our growth as a company whether you look at Mac, iPhone, or iPod is we're growing faster internationally than we are domestically, and you can see that in the revenues as well.

However, I think you have to put that in perspective that the Company's revenues in the Americas are growing over 40%. So this is a huge number. We're not talking about a low number. It is just that the international numbers are absolutely killer.

KATY HUBERTY: And just on a more global basis, a lot of the iPhone growth has come from broadening distribution among carriers and in new countries. Can you just cover the opportunity that you see or don't see to broaden within countries you are already in to go after emerging markets like China and India and then just quickly thoughts on prepaid markets and whether that is an opportunity for you?

TIM COOK: Yes. I think both on the Mac and the iPhone and later the iPad as we roll it out to more places, I think there is still extraordinary opportunity left. if you look at the Mac as an example, in Asia-Pacific, the Macs grew 73% year-over-year. This is phenomenal, that we could grow by this much, and in China we grew 144%. In Korea we grew 184%. In Hong Kong we almost doubled, and even in a country like Spain where the economy has clearly been very difficult, the Mac grew 59%, and so there is some very, very extraordinary numbers in that.

In the iPhone space we are doing well in basically all of the key markets. So in terms of the expanding that, we, learning what we learned with the exclusive deals and continuing to look market by market as I have indicated in the past, we have elected to open Spain up, and at the end of this month, we will go from an exclusive carrier market to having three carriers, and so that's one example. There are also more countries remaining, and frankly, there is still increased distribution and increased market penetration like enterprise and consumer and a general move in the marketplace from the basic voice and text phone to the Smartphones, all of which are in the iPhone's favor, and so honestly I just see an enormous amount of opportunity out there and our biggest challenge is to decide which of these to deploy resources against, not to have good ideas about which ones or about making the list of ideas.

KATY HUBERTY: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From JPMorgan, we'll go to Mark Moskowitz

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Two quick questions. Tim, coming back to the iPad for a second, I know there is a lot of speculation about potential cannibalization down the road while it is still premature to speculate. I am trying to get a sense, could there be a reverse effect where Apple maybe benefits from a halo effect where folks buy the iPad and also decide maybe to buy some other Apple devices to keep at home when they're using the iPad on the road? the early stages, has your data shown that where you are seeing someone buying an iPad, and then there is a subsequent purchase of a MacBook or iMac or an iPhone?

TIM COOK: That's a very good question, Mark, and I do agree that I think most people external to Apple focus on cannibalization as the negative and internally we focus on exactly the opposite, the synergy between, both technically and from a demand point of view. If you look at the iPod historically, all of the people here felt that the iPod created a halo for the Mac, and in fact as the iPod volumes took off, you will see a dramatic change in the Mac sales back in time that we experienced, and so could that happen on iPhone and iPad? We'll see. I don't want to predict it.

I do think that with our Mac share, the Mac has out grown the market 17 straight quarters. However, the Mac share is still low, and so there is still an enormous opportunity for the Mac to grow, and certainly the more customers we can introduce to Apple through iPads and through iPhones and through iPods, you would think that there might be some synergy with the Mac there, and there may be synergy between the iPad and the iPhone as well and so on and so forth, and so that's the way that we look at it internally instead of this negative although I know everybody is more focused on the negative piece of it. This is where it is great to be -- to have a lower share, because if it turns out that the iPad cannibalizes PCs, then I think it is fantastic for us, because there is a lot of PCs to cannibalize. It is still a big market

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Thanks, Tim. Maybe I can shift gears to Peter quickly. Peter, have you had a chance to what could be the scenario where by some of the subcontractors you work with that they do have to put through significant wage hikes over the next course of contract renewals over the next year or so, how would that impact Apple? you have to absorb any of those pass through on the wage hikes or where those subcontractors have to absorb 100% of the wage hikes?

TIM COOK: This is Tim again. We don't want to get into the terms of our commercial agreements. We hold these to be competitive advantages and do not want to release those.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. That's fine. Thank you

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark. Can we have the next question, please

OPERATOR: That will come from Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks very much. Tim, earlier you mentioned a lot of opportunity domestically for the iPhone. Do you need to expand your carrier relationships to tap that, or do you think there is plenty of head room with AT&T?

TIM COOK: I don't want to get into what we will or will not do. I would say that we are very happy to be a partner with AT&T, and they have been a first class partner and have really pioneered the Smartphone growth from a network point of view in the US, and that's all I have to say about that.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Okay. Secondly on the gross margin guidance just back of the envelope, seems to suggest iPhone margins will be down maybe 10 or 15 points quarter on quarter. Is that in the right neighborhood, and if so can you provide a little more color which components are driving that? seems to contradict third party data around the bill of material costs for that product.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Chris, it is Peter. Let me begin by suggesting that you don't put a lot of credence in these third party reports that you see. It is always amazing to me the cost categories and the components that never seem to make it into the reports. As I think answered in Toni's questions, with the iPhone 4 we have been very aggressive here. This is the best iPhone that we have ever shipped. we're delivering great value to customers, and then it has a higher cost structure than the predecessor product, and I don't want to comment on its specific gross margin

CHRIS WHITMORE: Last question for me. Back to you, Tim. Just trying to ballpark the size of the supply/demand gap for the iPhone and the iPad, again back of the envelope. Are we talking about a couple million iPhone units short of demand and maybe half a million iPads short of demand? Is that the kind of gap we're talking about?

TIM COOK: I don't know. That question is very difficult to answer because the way that you truly find out what it is at least from my own experience and perspective is you have enough supply to serve the demand and then you know what the demand is. today we don't have enough on either iPhone 4 or iPad and so I truly don't know. Obviously we have taken bets internally in terms of the capacity that is we're going for, and we rolled those into the guidance, and I think you can get from the guidance that I think is extremely strong that we are pretty confident with being able to pick up the supply.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Thanks a lot.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Chris. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a pod cast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor and by telephone, and the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, and the confirmation code is 474-8846. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5 PM specific time today. members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896 and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570, and I am at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cscm : Supply Chain Management | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c411 : Management Moves | c15 : Performance | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100803e67k0020a
  


 HD
 Q1  2010 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,106 words
   PD
25 January 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and Welcome to Apple Inc. first quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer and he'll be joined by Apple's COO Tim Cook, and Treasurer Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with Alex.

Please note some of the information you will hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margins, operating expenses other income and expense, stock based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share and future products. Actual results and trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2009 and the Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 filed earlier today. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

With that I'd like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are thrilled to report our best quarter ever. We posted Apple's highest quarter revenue and earnings and set new records with sales of Macs and iPhones. We're shipping the best products in our history and customers love them. Today we are recording our current results as well as all historical comparisons under the new accounting principles we discussed with you on our last earnings conference call which I will explain in detail after going through the highlights of our record breaking December quarter.

Revenue for the quarter was $15.68 billion growing 32% from prior's quarter results and surpassing our previous quarterly record by almost $3.5 billion. Operating margin was Apple's highest ever at $3.73 billion representing 30.1% of revenue. Net income was $3.38 billion up 50% over the year ago quarter and was almost $850 million higher than our previous quarterly record. Earnings per share were $3.67.

Turning to the details of our results I'd like to begin with our Mac products and services. We generated record Mac sales of 3.36 million beating our previous record set in the September quarter by over 300,000. Quarterly Mac sales grew 33% year over year and this compares extremely favorably to IDC's latest published estimate of 17% growth for the market overall in the December quarter. We are extremely proud of this result and believe our Mac hardware and software are providing outstanding innovation and value that our customers really love. Response to the new iMacs introduced in October was very strong, contributing to 70% year over year growth in desktop sales. Customers are thrilled with the iMac's tremendous new features including enhanced performance, wide screen LED display, wireless keyboard and new Magic Mouse.

Portable sales were also robust during the quarter, increasing 18% year over year based on strong sales of both MacBook and MacBook Pro. We experienced very strong demand following the October launch of the new MacBook which features a durable unibody design, brilliant LED display, glass multi-task track pad, and enhanced performance. The new iMac and MacBook launches fueled very strong results in our education business during the quarter. Overall Mac sales through our US education channel increased 16% year over year as we set new December quarter records from both K to 12 and high ed channels. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Now I'll turn to our music products. We sold almost 21 million iPods compared to 22.7 million in the year ago quarter. As expected, sales of our traditional ipods declined year over year but the very strong 55% year-over-year growth in sales of iPod Touch resulted in an overall iPod ASP increase of 9% and revenue growth of 1%. Our share of the US market for MP3 players remains at over 70% based on the latest monthly data published by MPD. And IPod was the top selling MP3 player and continued to gain share internationally year over year in most countries we tracked based on the latest data published by GFK. The iTunes store delivered a recording breaking quarter with strong sales of music, video and apps. iTunes has the world's largest online music catalogue, with a selection of 11 million songs. iTunes also features over 8,000 Hollywood films including 2,000 HD video, 10,000 music videos and over 50,000 TV episodes. The app store continues to be an unparalleled success with more than 3 billion downloads to date by iPhone and iPod Touch users in 77 countries. We ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory on a look forward basis.

I'd now like to turn to the iPhone. We are thrilled to have sold over 8.7 million iPhones during the quarter which is a new Company record and an increase of 100% over the prior December quarter. This compares extremely favorably to Canalys' latest published estimate of 35% growth for the smartphone overall in December quarter. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset sales, accessory sales and carrier payments was $5.58 billion during the quarter compared to $2.94 billion in the year ago quarter. The sales value of the 8.7 million iPhones sold in the quarter was over $5.4 billion resulting in an ASP of about $620.

We added 17 new carriers during the quarter including Canada Bell and Telus, Orange in the UK, China Unicom and KTF in South Korea. We now have iPhone distribution in 86 countries and we are very pleased with the international growth we achieved as we have added both countries and carriers. We experienced very strong year-over-year growth in a number of major markets including Japan, Australia, the UK, France and Germany.

Satisfaction and demand for iPhone in the corporate environment remains strong. In fact, business customers have ranked iPhone the Number one smart phone in JD Powers customer satisfaction survey for the second year in a row. And we have continued to see a rapidly growing number of enterprise CIOs who have added iPhone to their approved device list. Specifically, we now have over 70% of the Fortune 100 deploying or piloting iPhone. This penetration has doubled since the iPhone 3GS first shipped this past summer.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue in the quarter was $1.97 billion compared to $1.75 billion in the year ago quarter, an increase of 13%. Our stores sold a record 689,000 Macs compared to 515,000 Macs in the year ago quarter. About half the Macs sold in our stores during the December quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before. We opened 10 new stores during the quarter including spectacular new stores at the Louvre in Paris and on the upper west side of New York. Bringing us to a total of 283 stores in 10 countries. We also completed 32 store remodel projects during the December quarter bringing us to 100 remodels in the calendar year. With an average of 278 stores open during the December quarter average revenue per store was $7.1 million compared to $7 million in the year ago quarter. Retail segment margin was $481 million or 24.4%, up from $409 million or 23.4% in the year ago quarter. We hosted a record 50.9 million visitors in our stores during the quarter compared to 46.7 million visitors in the year ago quarter, an increase of 9%.

We also conducted 586,000 personal training sessions and sold 280,000 memberships to our one-to-one program. We now have 62 stores outside the US and we are on track to open 40 to 50 stores in fiscal 2010, at least half of which we expect to be in international locations. We remain very pleased with the performance of our stores and customers continue to truly value the great experience our stores provide.

Total gross margin was 40.9%. Operating expenses were $1.69 billion and included $168 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $33 million. And the tax rate for the quarter was 29%. Better than we expected due to a higher mix of foreign earnings.

Turning to cash. Our cash plus short term and long-term marketable securities totaled $39.8 billion at the end of the December quarter compared to $34 billion at the end of the September quarter, an increase of $5.8 billion. Cash flow from operations was about $5.8 billion. Our investment priority for the cash continues to be preservation of capital which has served us well in the current environment. We are continuing to focus on short dated high quality investments and remain comfortable with our investment portfolio.

As we discussed on our last conference call, in September of 2009 the FASB amended the accounting standards that determine how we account for sales of iPhone and Apple TV, as well as certain other types of transactions related to revenue recognition for arrangements with multiple deliverables. We elected to adopt these new accounting principles on a retrospective basis in the December quarter. Because we began selling both iPhone and Apple TV in fiscal 2007 we retrospectively adopted the new accounting principles as if the new accounting principles had been applied in all prior periods. Consequently, the financial results of each quarter from fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2009 have been revised. We believe retrospective adoption provides analysts and investors the most comparable and useful financial information and better reflects the underlying economic performance of our business.

Under the old accounting principles we were required to account for sales of both iPhone and Apple TV using subscription accounting because we indicated we might provide future unspecified software upgrades and features for those products free of charge. Under subscription accounting, revenue and associated product costs of sales were deferred at the time of sale and recognized on a straight line basis over 24 months which resulted in significant amounts of deferred revenue and deferred costs on the balance sheet. The new accounting principles require us (inaudible) for the sale of each iPhone and Apple TV as two deliverables. The first deliverable is the hardware and software provided at the time of sale and the second deliverable is the right to receive future unspecified software upgrades and features when and if they become available. The new rules require us to estimate the standalone selling price for the software upgrade right and to recognize that amount ratably over our estimated 24-month live for iPhone and Apple TV.

For all periods to date from 2007 we have estimated the selling price of the upgrade right to be $25 for iPhone and $10 for Apple TV. The difference between the total iPhone or Apple TV sales price and the $25 or $10 estimated selling price of the upgrade right is recognized as revenue immediately. As a result, substantially all of the revenue and all of the product costs including warranty expense from the sales of iPhone and Apple TV are recognized at the time of sale. Therefore, you will see much less deferred revenue and no deferred cost on the revised balance sheets related to past iPhone and Apple TV sales. The accounting for OpEx has been affected by the new accounting principles.

The new accounting principles also alter the way we previously accounted for some other aspects of the business including some education and other shipments and some international carrier payments. None of which were significant. For example, under the old accounting principles we were required to recognize revenue from certain education sales over multiple years because we could not meet the strict criteria required for immediate revenue recognition. Under the new accounting principles we are permitted to make estimates of the value of the elements that need to be deferred and recognized over time. Therefore, in our revised financial statements a significant portion of the revenue from such transactions has been recognized as of the time of sale.

The results of the December quarter as well as the revised results in each of the past three fiscal years reflect the new accounting principles. In addition to filing the 10-Q for the December quarter with the SEC today, we also filed an amended 10-K for 2009 to reflect the retrospective application of the new principles to prior years. To assist analysts and investors in their understanding the impact of the new principles, we also filed an 8-K today to provide quarterly financial schedules reconciling the application of old and new accounting principles to historical income statements, balance sheets, cash flow from operations, deferred revenue and summary data information. These schedules will also be available later today on our website at Apple.com/investor.

We are very pleased by the FASB's ratification of the new accounting principles as we believe they will better enable us to reflect the underlying economics and performance of our business and therefore we will no longer be providing non-GAAP financial measures.

Looking ahead to the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We will provide a range of guidance for the March quarter under the new accounting principles. We expect revenue to be between about $11 billion and $11.4 billion compared to $9.1 billion in the March quarter last year under the new accounting principles. We expect gross margin to be about 39% reflecting approximately $40 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $1.64 billion including about $190 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $30 million reflective of the short term interest rate environment and we expect the tax rate to be about 29%. We are targeting EPS in the range of $2.06 to $2.18 compared to $1.79 in the year ago quarter under the new accounting principles.

In closing we are extremely pleased with the results of our record breaking December quarter including our 32% revenue growth and 50% net income growth. We remain focused on delivering the industry's most innovative products and great value to our customers and we are incredibly excited about our new product Pipeline. With that I would like to open the call to questions.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, the question and answer session will be conducted electronically. Your first question will come from Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon and congratulations. The Mac was impressive, 33% growth. Third quarter consecutive Mac growth rate, I'm not sure if that's through a combination of new products and better economy. But before the slowdown, MAcs were growing at 41% in June of 2008. Besides the law of large numbers is there any reason to think the Mac growth rates won't continue in these just reported ranges?

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Hi, Gene, it is Tim. We are thrilled to see the Mac at the 33% growth rate. It is about two times the market and so I wouldn't want to predict what will occur in the future. As you know, we don't do that other than to give guidance. But I would point out that some of the markets that we are in, the Mac growth was absolutely spectacular. As an example, Italy, France, Switzerland and Spain all grew at 40% or higher. Australia was up over 70%. China was up almost 100%. There are some markets we are doing extremely well in and we will just have to see where it takes us. But we believe that we are shipping the best products that we have ever shipped before and are very confident about the pipeline.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Just one quick follow-up question regarding AT&T. 40% of your iPhone units are in AT&T, by our estimates. Obviously AT&T has had a lot of bad press here recently and obviously that impacts your brand. Can you remind us what the benefits and virtues of sticking with a single carrier in the US are?

TIM COOK: AT&T is a great partner. We have been working with them since well before we announced the first iPhone to get it out. I think it is important to remember they had more mobile broadband usage than any other carrier in the world. And in the vast majority of locations we think that iPhone customers are having a great experience, from the research that we have done. As you know, AT&T has acknowledged that they are having some issues in a few cities and they have very detailed plans to address these. We have reviewed these plans and we have very high confidence they will make significant progress towards fixing them.

NANCY PAXTON: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from Richard Gardner with Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Great, thank you. Peter, I wanted to ask you about gross margin. I know you've switched over the accounting but it looked like under the prior accounting method your gross margin would have been somewhere north of 37% which is well above the 34% you guided to on the last call, and I was hoping that you could, as you usually do, give us a sense of the puts and takes on gross margin during the December quarter. And for the March quarter as well. Thank you.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As you know, we are reporting our results for the December quarter today under the new accounting principles and the guidance that we provided, as you said, Rich, was under the historic principles. So the two are not comparable. But let me try and help. And actually, I'd like to first start with revenue. Our actual revenue of $15.68 billion exceeded the guidance that we gave under the old accounting principles by over $4 billion and roughly half of that was attributed to the performance of the business. We set records for Mac and iPhone shipments, had a great iTunes quarter. And, by the way, IPod Touch up very strongly, 55%. And the accounting change accounted for the other half of the $4 billion. We focused our attention on converting to the new accounting which was really complex. And I'm so proud of how hard the finance team and the systems team worked to accomplish this so quickly after the FASB amended the standards. So we didn't spend as much time really diving into the gross margin but I can tell you that the December quarter margin of 40.9% was a bit better than we expected heading into the quarter due to three factors.

The first is we did experience a better commodity environment than we had anticipated. Second we had better warranty performance and lower freight and duty costs than we planned and we did benefit from the higher revenue and leveraged some of our fixed costs. As we go forward to the March quarter I would expect gross margins to be about 39%, down a little bit sequentially as a result of three factors, all about equal in size. The first is we do expect a higher component environment and some other costs in the March quarter relative to what we saw in December. Second, we will have a very typical seasonal decline in revenue so we won't have as much leverage on our fixed costs and we won't have the benefit of a couple of small one-time items that we had in the December quarter not repeating. And then finally the US dollar has strengthened here in the new calendar year from where we were in the December quarter and that's having an impact, as well.

RICHARD GARDNER: Peter, if I could ask a quick follow-up. Could you elaborate on which component prices you expect to be up in the March quarter?

TIM COOK: Rich, it's Time. For this quarter compared to last quarter we are continuing to see that the market is very constrained in DRAM and we do expect that that will drive prices higher sequentially. For the vast majority of the other commodities it appears to us that the excess inventories that causes prices to fall last year have been depleted and are more in a supply/demand balance. The one exception to that is the 3.5-inch drive which will be supply constrained.

RICHARD GARDNER: Great, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Credit Suisse we will hear from Bill Shope.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, guys. First of all, just as a clarification, does the guidance you gave include any impact from unannounced products this quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, I think you're maybe alluding to our event on Wednesday and I don't have anything to share with you today. So please stay tuned.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Then off of that, now that the iPhone business has been around for several years can you guys provide us some color on how we should think about March quarter seasonality? And also, Tim, could you give us an update on how we should think about channel inventory within the iPhone business?

TIM COOK: Sure, Bill. First of all, the channel inventory question. We ended the quarter with approximately 2.7 million units in the channel. I would remind you that that includes demos and also includes in transit inventories that have been invoiced to carrier and so we probably count that in a more conservative manner than others might. In terms of seasonal I think Peter will comment on that.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Bill, I will talk about all three of our product areas. For Mac we would expect to see a sequential decline which is very typical in the March quarter from the December holiday quarter. For iPod we certainly would expect to see the same. And given that our expectations that traditional iPod sales will decrease over time the sequential decline may be a little bigger than we have seen in prior years. And we don't have a lot of experience with iPhone but certainly gaining some. And given that the quarter ended after Christmas we would expect to see a sequential decline in the March quarter from December which is, we think, very seasonal.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Barclays Capital we hear from Ben Reitzes.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good afternoon. Peter, your free cash flow was $5.88 in the quarter, if I calculated it right, higher than EPS. Do you see any dynamics that would change the way you are generating free cash flow versus earnings and do you think that that will remain the case over the long-term?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The cash generating in the quarter was very very strong. GAAP earnings under the new accounting which have a very small deferral for iPhone and Apple TV were up just under $3.4 billion and our cash increased by $5.8 billion and our cash flow from operations about equaled our total cash generation. It really speaks to the power of our business model and our asset management. And to answer your question I don't see that changing. We are very very good with our receivables and our inventory management and with payables, as well. We have been operating on a cash conversion cycle in the range of about a negative 40 days for as many years as I can remember. And I'm not looking to see that change.

BEN REITZES: All right. Thanks a lot, Peter. Then with regard to the iPhone could you talk a little bit more about China in particular. Did that meet your expectations in the quarter and how is that looking into this year? And do you think you will add more partners over time in that area as well, IPhone related, obviously.

TIM COOK: Ben, it is Tim. We typically do not disclose units by country but given the visibility I'll do so. We started selling in China, as you know, at the very end of October, beginning of November. Earlier this month we had cumulatively activated 200,000 units, crossing over the 200,000 unit mark. We ramped the point of sales across that period of time to end at about 1,500 by the end of Q. And we are very, very focused on the quality of the point of sales and the customer experience. So we would prefer to move slow because we are building the brand for the long-term and we are very much focused on the long-term in that market because we think there is significant potential there. I wouldn't want to forecast where sales will go and what we may or may not do from a partner point of view. But we are very happy with working with China Unicom. They are an excellent partner for us and I am thrilled that we are underway and have got about 2.5 months of experience under our belt.

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Sanford Bernstein, we will hear from Tony

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. Just a couple questions, please. First, can you just comment on your comfort level with iPhone inventory. You mentioned you expect iPhones to be seasonally down but channel inventory was up. I know you were below where you want inventory to be last quarter, so perhaps you could just clarify is four to six weeks the right number. Are you right in the middle of that? How do we think about iPhone channel inventory?

TIM COOK: Tony, it is Tim. You're correct, channel inventory grew by about 230,000 units from the beginning to the end of the quarter to around the 2.7 million level. We are completely comfortable with it. We could have sold a lot more and elected not to because we are managing inventories very tightly. I'm not putting a target of four to six weeks out there on iPhone. We do have that target on iPod as you know and we have a target on the Mac of four to five. We ended under the Mac number and we ended within the iPod number despite, although we did pull the inventory on the iPod down from beginning to end of the quarter by about 150,000 units. On the phone we obviously had expansion through the quarter in terms of the number of carriers that we are dealing with within some existing countries and also launched some larger countries like China and Korea and really needed more inventory than we started with. But I feel totally comfortable with it.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Any update on litigation? Obviously a relatively high profile suit from Nokia. Can you, A, give us an update at all or equally importantly can you confirm that there's no potential material risk to Apple's financial from litigation expense or settling patent infringement lawsuits going forward?

TIM COOK: Tony, as you know we have a longstanding practice of not commenting on pending litigation.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Finally on the gross margin side, I think you're guiding on your new GAAP basis for gross margins to be down from 40% last year to 39% this year. How do we think through that given the iPhone gross margins are 60%, iPhones just grew 100%, year over year growth is going to be very strong, so you're going to have a huge mix shift to iPhone. How do we just reconcile the notion on a year-over-year basis that overall Company gross margin should be going down given that mix shift?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Tony, it is Peter. As I've commented before, it is very difficult for us to talk about gross margin on a year-over-year basis because we are in different product cycles, different commodity cycles, currency, mix can be different and other factors as well. I do see our gross margin coming down a bit on a sequential basis from where we ended the second quarter. I can back through that, if you want, but I answered that in Rich's question.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Tony. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Needham we will hear from Charles Wolf.

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: I have a two-part question. The iPhone application approval process has come under constant criticism for delays and reportedly arbitrary guidelines for acceptance. First, is the problem the model itself where Apple acts as the gatekeeper, or the implementation of the model? And second, have you received any feedback from iPhone owners who shop at the store? Would they also prefer an alternative?

TIM COOK: Hi, Charlie, it is Tim. I think it is important to keep this in some perspective. That we have over 100,000 apps in the store and that over 90% of the apps that we've had have been approved within 14 days of the submission. We created the approval process to really make sure that it protected consumer privacy, safeguard children from inappropriate content, and to avoid apps that degrade the core experience of the phone. Some types of content such as pornography are rejected outright. Some things, like graphic combat scenes and action games might be approved but with appropriate age ratings. Most of the rejections, however, are actually bugs in the code itself. And this is protecting the customer and the developer to a great extent because they don't want customers that are unhappy with the apps. So I think what you have here is something that the noise on it occasionally may be much higher than the reality with over 90% approved within 14 days, I think this is pretty good.

CHARLES WOLF: On the second question, have you got any feedback from the iPhone owners who buy at the stores and are they comfortable and are they happy with it?

TIM COOK: I have not and in the research that I have seen from our team I don't see it in the research.

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from Mike Abramsky with RBC Capital Markets.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: In view of the fact you did indicate in your release, and I think probably everybody except for some folks on the moon know that you're going to be unveiling something exciting soon, how do you feel, maybe Tim, about new product category opportunities ahead? Can you see things that are as large an opportunity for Apple as has been the iPhone, iPod, the Mac, or is that perhaps setting expectations too high?

TIM COOK: Mike, I wouldn't want to take away your joy of surprise on Wednesday when you see our latest creation. So I'll delay that for Wednesday.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. And when we see your latest creation will you perhaps give us visibility to things like whether it is in your guidance or not or so on and so forth to help us understand a little bit better how to think about how things will unfold from an analyst, investor point of view?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Mike, it is Peter. Stay tuned.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: All right. Thanks, guys.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mike. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: And your next question will come from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon. I want to revisit the discussion on China and emerging markets from a broader perspective because these regions often share characteristics that are very different than the mature markets where you've had lots of success, particularly the percentage of customers that purchase phone service on a prepaid basis, lower average income levels, et cetera. As you think about those barriers is it appropriate to roll out iPhone and other products and pricing and distribution in a homogeneous or global way or might you down the road have to look at it on a country by country or region by region basis?

TIM COOK: Katy, it is Tim. We have just really got going in China. I really like what I see so far. Although the average income is not nearly as high as perhaps the United States and some other western European markets, there is a significant sized middle class and up, there. I think to do a real deep analysis you really have to look not just at the averages but at the distribution of income within these countries. We have been selling in Brazil for a while and we are learning about Brazil, as well. The Brazilian economy is different than the Chinese economy because the duties are very significant, and the taxes are very significant there which tends to compound the price. But we are very focused on these markets and in fact if you look at greater China last quarter, which is China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, our revenues tripled year over year in that geography which is, I think, phenomenal by any measure. And so we have a tremendous focus on it. As was alluded to earlier in the call, 58% of our revenue last quarter was from outside the United States and it is clear as you can look at our numbers our growth rates are much higher outside the US. And so we realize that we must do well in these markets to continue to grow.

KATY HUBERTY: Thanks. And then just, Peter, as a follow-up. You mentioned the plans for store openings in 2010 but what are your expectations for non retail store capex? And if it's growing, what type of projects should we think about?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We expect our capex in fiscal '10 to be about $1.9 billion. That is unchanged from what we told you a quarter ago. About $400 million of it is in retail. And about $1.5 billion not in retail. The areas that we are focused on that exclude retail are, of course, our facilities and infrastructure and some of our systems areas and manufacturing.

KATY HUBERTY: Thanks so much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: From Cross Research we will hear from Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Quick question just on the apps store. Can you provide some more color regarding what you're hearing from developers and customers, what you are seeing in terms of any changes of paid versus free apps. I think you gave a $3 billion download number, probably not giving an update. How have you seen the success of the apps store?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shannon, it is Peter. For competitive reasons we don't want to share much of the answers to much of the question that you asked so I'm sorry. But again, it is for competitive reasons. What I will share with you is that we are way ahead of our competitors with over 100,000 apps on our store. That dwarfs anybody we are competing with. We have provided many, many great applications with our developers to customers and it is helping us with both iPhone and iPhone Touch and it was one of the key reasons why iTunes set a record in the quarter.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Great. Then just a follow-up question. Perhaps you could talk a little bit about that you made a comment that your corporate clients that are looking at the iPhone have more than doubled. Are people writing specific apps? Is there any anecdotal evidence that iPhone sales within corporate are helping to drive overall Mac acceptance in the office environment? Just anything you can give us in terms of your corporate strategy.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think it is early, Shannon, to comment on the halo from the iPhone to the Mac. As you know, we did feel strongly that that did exist with the iPod. On a corporate basis the iPhone really saw a significant acceleration of acceptance and exploration after we announced the iPhone 3GS and associated operating system in the mid part of the year. And as I think Peter mentioned in some of his opening comments, 70% now of the Fortune 100 are actively piloting or deploying it. If you look internationally, about 50% of the FT 100 is doing the same. Those are some pretty staggering numbers when you think about the time period that we have been in the business. It is only 2.5 years and several of the requests from enterprises really implemented in the June/July time frame. And so we feel great about what's happening there.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you very much. For the iPhone, have you seen any change in the financial model when you move beyond the first carrier in some of the more mature markets where you've had exclusive agreements in the past?

TIM COOK: David, it is Tim. Primarily what we have seen in the countries that we had done this in is that the sales are largely incremental as we add carriers. As you know, we have added carriers in the UK. I think when our market share comes out there you will see a significant change. We have added carriers in France and I'm pleased to say that the latest GFK numbers for market share in France is over 60% for the October/November time frame. We have added carriers in the Scandinavian countries and saw market share increases. I think we will see the same in Canada when we get the market share numbers for Canada. That's what we have seen so far. However, we have also selected, in most cases we have selected countries that we thought that would happen in and so I don't want to imply that that would happen in every market or that we are headed that way in every market.

DAVID BAILEY: Great. Just a follow-up on the last question. Is there something you're doing specifically either on the sales side or on the technical support side to drive higher corporate growth in the iPhone segment?

TIM COOK: We have done a tremendous amount on the product side itself by implementing tons of features in the latest OS for iPhone that several of our enterprise customers had desired. Secondly, we have added sales staff to assist the carrier staff in selling the iPhone in several of the major geographies. And so, yes, this is a key focus of ours.

DAVID BAILEY: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, David. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: From JPMorgan we will hear from Mark Moskowitz.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good afternoon. Two quick questions. One on the longer-term strategy. Could you give us an update in terms of the recent acquisitions of LaLa and Quattro ? How should investors think about Apple's longer term strategy? Will it be only content and device driven or could we see more of a services type flavor, longer term? Any thoughts there would be greatly appreciated. And Peter, on the tax rate, just given the increasing contribution to growth from international should we think about tax rate having a downward pressure as we go into the back half of

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Mark, it is Peter. I'll start with your second question first. We did have a lower tax rate for the first quarter and your tax rate is really the one part of the guidance where under GAAP it is annual. So at this point we expect our tax rate to be about 29% for fiscal 2010 and when I last spoke with you in October we expected it to be 30%. So, yes, it is down a point and it's down a point because of a higher mix of foreign earnings. So if foreign earnings were to grow beyond what we have thought about for the year then our tax rate may very well be lower. In terms of our Quattro and LaLa acquisitions, we acquired Quattro because we wanted to offer a seamless way for our developers to make more money on their apps, especially those that are providing free apps. And we occasionally acquire small companies from time to time for their technology and talent and that's why we do it.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mark. Could we have the next question please.

OPERATOR: From UBS we will hear from Maynard Um.

MAYNARD UM, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. We've seen a number of industry revenue forecasts for applications. Just given the expected explosive growth there I'm just wondering if that is still a break even type of business as you look forward over the next couple of years. Secondly, I have a question on the cash. As the economy starts to improve, or hopefully, and we move away from cash preservation can you just talk about uses of cash because it seems like you can fund the M&A and then some solely through cash flow? In particular I'm just curious about the Company's appetite for share repurchases, dividends, et cetera.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We have told you our philosophy on cash. I don't have a change in that philosophy to share with you today but nothing is forever. Regarding the apps store and iTunes store we are running those a bit over break even. And that hasn't changed. And we are very excited to be providing our developers with just a fabulous opportunity and we think that is helping us a lot with the iPhone and iPod Touch platform.

MAYNARD UM: But as the revenues start to ramp there are there any kind of fixed causes that would grow with it on a like for like basis that would prevent it from seeing good operating leverage?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: There are some fixed costs but the variable cost structure is high and we are investing a lot in these stores. As revenue grows we are just continuing to invest more to give both developers and customers the best experience in the world.

MAYNARD UM: Great, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Maynard. Could we have the next question.

OPERATOR: From Bank of Montreal we will hear from Keith Bachman.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: I had a couple. Peter, to start with, just a clarification. On the new accounting standard will there be $25 of deferred revenue going forward on the sale of iPhones as well as I know it is on a look back basis?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Keith, let me clarify this for you. I talked about how we are accounting for an iPhone sale in really two elements. The first being the initial hardware and the software that somebody would buy and walk out of the store with. And the second element being the right to receive future upgrades when and if they become available. And we have estimated the selling price of that upgrade for iPhone to be about $25. So in terms of what we have done here in the revision of our financial statements, we went back and applied a $25 deferral to all iPhones that we had sold in the past and a $10 deferral to Apple TV. When you look at all of the things that we put out today in terms of income statements and balance sheets and cash flow you'll see that there is substantially less deferred revenue on those balance sheets and no deferred cost. We are recognizing the deferred revenue from the $25 deferral each quarter in our balance sheet.

So to help you be sure that you have your models correct on a go-forward basis, we essentially recognized about $110 million in the December quarter for the $25 that we deferred for all the iPhones that we sold over the past two years. So, Keith, we deferred $25 on the 8.7 million iPhones that we sold in the quarter. So that came out of revenue. But then we put in about $110 million from the amortization that occurred from the past two years' sales. Does that make sense?

KEITH BACHMAN: Yes, that's fine. Tim, for you, on Asia PAC and Japan CPU sales were particularly strong and moreover if you look at Asia PAC the revenues, the year-over-year growth rate was about three times higher than the CPU units. So I just want to try to understand in Japan and Asia PAC that looked like a pretty strong mix up in terms of computers but also just underlying strength. Wanted to hear if you could offer some more color about that, please.

TIM COOK: Sure. In Japan what's going on there is that the iPhone has been a runaway hit. The iPhone was up over 400% year on year during the quarter. And so that is what is driving the huge revenue growth that you see in Japan. The Mac growth is above market. But we believe we can do better in the Mac area in Japan. In Asia-Pacific, Asia-Pacific is doing an incredible job with the Mac growing 54%. It is our highest performing region in terms of growth. And in the iPhone, the iPhone was up over 500% in Asia-Pacific. And as you probably remember, we talked about China on this call but we also added Korea during the quarter and we added several other countries throughout the year after Q1 of last year. And so iPhone really drove an incredible amount of the total revenue growth that you see on the 140%.

KEITH BACHMAN: If I could sneak in one more, Peter. I think you said but I might have missed it what revenue and EPS would have been under the previous accounting policy for the December quarter. And that's it for me, thanks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Keith, actually, I did not say that. That's actually not something that we have the time to try and figure out. As I said before, the team did just an amazing job to implement this new accounting within four months of the FASB ratifying it. The comments that I made were that our revenue was $15.68 billion under the new accounting, exceeded the guidance we gave under the old accounting by over $4 billion. About half of that was driven by the amazing performance of the business and the other half was driven by the accounting change.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we get the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We will hear from Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks very much. Wanted to follow-up on earlier questions around mobile advertising in the applications stores. Specifically I'm interested to understand what role, if any, you expect mobile advertising to have on your business model going forward? Can you characterize the changing relationship you have with Google as a vendor in the smartphone space?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We work with Google in some areas and we compete with them in others. I think mobile advertising is just in its infancy. And with the great folks that we have acquired and are going to be working with at Quattro we look forward to providing our developers with a great opportunity for mobile advertising. That's what we know at this point.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Do you anticipate mobile advertising as being a significant revenue or earnings contributor going forward or is this primarily similar strategy we've seen in iTunes and the apps store to drive demand for your devices?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, we are in infancy and I honestly don't know. We will have to see. We are going to work hard to provide, as I said, the developers a great opportunity and we will see where that takes us.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: It will come from Bill Feamley with FTN Equity Capital.

BILL FEAMLEY, ANALYST, FTN EQUITY CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Two questions in customer segments, if I could. In the Pro segment, Tim, could you update us on what you are seeing in the Pro segment since the last call, and as you look at the upcoming year are you seeing improvement there and if you do is it helping the Mac Pro product line or is it helping sales of higher end MacBook Pros and the iMacs? What did you see after the quarter, what do you expect? And I have a quick follow-up.

TIM COOK: Bill, we saw a small year over year increase in Pro software sales. This is Final Cut, Aperture and Pro audio space. We use that as a proxy for how many of our Pro machines are being sold in that space. So I would still describe that as an economically challenged area currently and I hope that we see improvement as we move forward but I'm not projecting it.

BILL FEAMLEY: Thanks, and if I could switch gears to education. What are your latest thoughts there because you in the past have made comments about state revenues and budgets have gotten worse, and certainly the headlines have become even worse since the last time we talked to you guys? So what's going on with K-12 that helps you above the problems that are there? And in higher ed with declining endowments is the student purchase segment your focus in higher Ed? If you could give us some more color on K-12 and higher ed and what is happening right for you and why would be helpful, please. Thanks.

TIM COOK: The great thing is, and I'm talking about the Mac here specifically, was that the combination of K-12 and higher ed in the US was up 16% year over year and that's the best growth rate we have seen since before the recession began. And so we feel great about how we came out of the quarter. We had very few orders that were supported with stimulus funds. And I would hope that that would change in the future although I don't know if that will happen or not. Our whole ed business is based on that we really understand teaching and learning and student achievement at a very deep level and we think we are the only technology company that really gets it. So we sell a lot more than just sell boxes, as many other people do. And so I think with staying very focused on that market I think we can continue to do well. I was thrilled to see the results that we hit last quarter.

BILL FEAMLEY: Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. Thanks to everyone for your participation. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks, as a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor, and by telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, and please enter confirmation code 403-5751. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan's at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | c314 : Pricing | csched : Announcements of News Conferences/Calls | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100208e61p00209
  


 HD
 Q4  2009 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,754 words
   PD
19 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Apple, Inc. fourth quarter 2009 fiscal earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer and he'll be joined by Apple's COO Tim Cook, and Treasurer, Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements including, without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in the Apple's Form 10-K for 2008, the Form 10-Q for the first three fiscal quarters of 2009, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective date.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP - FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're extremely pleased to report Apple's most profitable quarter ever and sales of more Macs and iPhones than in any previous quarter. We are thrilled with these record-breaking results, particularly given the economic environment around us.

Revenue for the quarter was $9.87 billion, representing 25% growth over the prior September quarter's results. This was Apple's second highest quarterly revenue ever, next to the record results reported for last December quarter. Operating margin was Apple's highest ever at $2.19 billion, representing over 22% of revenue and higher than our guidance, due to better than expected revenue and gross margin. Net income was $1.67 billion, which translated to earnings per share of $1.82.

In terms of non-GAAP measures, adjusted sales totaled $12.25 billion for the September quarter, which was almost $2.4 billion higher than our reported revenue. Adjusted gross margin was $5.21 billion, which was almost $1.6 billion higher than our reported gross margin. And adjusted net income was $2.85 billion, or almost $1.2 billion higher than our reported net income. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provided added transparency to our business and hope they are helpful to you in your analysis and understanding of our performance in the September quarter.

Turning to the details of our results, I would like to begin with our Mac products and services. We generated outstanding Mac sales of $3.05 million, meeting our previous record set in the year-ago quarter by over $440,000. The Mac is showing fantastic momentum, growing faster than the market in 19 of the past 20 quarters. We believe this is the result of our unmatched innovation and commitment to providing customers with the best hardware, the best software, and the best user experience in the world. Quarterly Mac sales grew 17% year-over-year and this compares extremely favorably to IDC's latest published estimate of 2% growth for the market overall in the September quarter.

Customers continue to respond very positively to our Mac portable lineup, which we updated in June. Portable sales increased 35% year-over-year and represented 74% of our Mac mix. Our execution in the quarter was outstanding, and we were particularly pleased with the 42% year-over-year growth in our Asia-Pacific segment. We once again had a very successful back-to-school season, and were very pleased with the 12% year-over-year increase in Mac sales to US education institutions, which resulted in the highest quarterly Mac sales ever for our US education business.

The shipments to US education institutions this quarter included 50,000 MacBooks to the state of Maine as part of its ongoing one-to-one initiative. Customer response to the August 28th release of Snow Leopard has been tremendous. Through the end of the September quarter, we generated consumer box upgrade sales at twice the rate we experienced with the leopard release. Snow Leopard delivers hundreds of refinements, is the only operating system to support Exchange out of the box, and is successfully introduced Nucor technologies. Snow Leopard allows developers to take full advantage of hardware features including 64-bit technology, multicore processors, and advanced graphics processing units. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Now I'll turn to our music products. We sold almost 10.2 million iPods, which was down from just over 11 million in the year-ago quarter. Our latest research indicates that 50% of recent iPod buyers were purchasing their first iPod, including those in our high market share countries such as the US, Japan, Australia, Canada, and the UK. Customers love the recently announced iPod Nano's new features including the built-in video camera, FM radio, pedometer and larger display.

Sales of iPod Touch grew strongly during the quarter, up 100% year-over-year, fueled by a very successful back-to-school season and the continued incredible popularity of the App Store, with the new $199 entry price point for the iPod Touch and the updated features for the iPod Shuffle, Nano and Classic, we believe the iPod line up is attractively positioned for the holiday season. Our share of the US market for MP3 players remains at over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by MPD, and iPod was the top-selling MP3 player, and continued to gain share year-over-year in nearly every country we tracked, based on the latest data published by GFK. We began and ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory.

The iTunes Store delivered another great quarter, with strong sales of music, video and Apps. Customers are loving last month's release of iTunes 9 and its many new features including iTunes LP, sharing and genius mixes, as well as improved syncing and the redesigned iTunes Store. With stores in 23 countries, iTunes is the worlds largest music retailer, now offering over 11 million songs in addition to over 50,000 TV episodes and 7500 films.

I would now like to turn to the iPhone. We are thrilled to have sold almost 7.4 million hand sets in the September quarter. That's a new Company record, and an increase of 7% over the prior September quarter, when we increased channel inventory by two million handsets following the introduction of the iPhone 3G, and the dramatic expansion of geographic distribution. iPhone sell-through in the quarter increased 38% year-over-year.

Response to the new iPhone 3GS has continued to be tremendous, and we were very pleased with JD Power and Associate's announcement earlier this month that iPhone has once again topped the charts for both consumer and business SmartPhone customer satisfaction. iPhone not only maintained its lead since the last JD Power report was issued six months ago, but it widened it over the next closest competitor in both categories. We are looking forward to selling iPhones in China beginning later this month, as this very large market represents a great opportunity to expand iPhone's reach even more broadly. We also plan to expand our carrier relationship in UK and Canada.

The App Sore continues to be an unparalleled success, with over 85,000 Apps available and over two billion customer downloads to date, including over 0.5 billion downloads in the September quarter. In addition to adding more apps at an amazing pace, we've continued to enhance the App Store experience with iPhone OS 3.1, which includes new features such as genius recommendations and a streamlined way to organize Apps within iTunes. Recognized revenue from the iPhone handset sales, accessory sales, and carrier payments with $2.3 billion during the quarter compared to $806 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 185%. The sales value of iPhones sold during the quarter was $4.5 billion.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. The stores had a record quarter, posting the highest revenue, segment margins, and Mac sales ever. Revenue in the quarter was $1.87 billion compared to $1.72 billion in the year-ago quarter. Our store sold 670,000 Macs compared to 596,000 Macs in the year-ago quarter. About half of the Macs sold in our stores during the September quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before.

We opened 15 new stores during the quarter, bringing us to a total of 273. With an average of 262 stores open during the quarter, average revenue per store was $7.1 million, compared to $7.6 million in the year-ago quarter. Retail segment margin was $410 million, or 22%, up from $301 million, or 17.5% in the year-ago quarter. We hosted 45.9 million visitors in our stores during the quarter, compared to 42.7 million visitors in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 7%.

We hosted 608,000 personal training sessions and we sold 208,000 memberships to our one-to-one program, an increase of over 120% year-over-year. Fiscal 2009 was a milestone year for our retail stores. In addition to opening 26 new stores, we remodeled 72 stores to our updated design, and for the first time, we opened more stores internationally than in the United States. In November, we plan to open our first two stores in France, including one at the Louvre, as well as our fourth high profile store in Manhattan on the Upper West Side.

Total company gross margin was 36.6%, which was 260 basis points better than our guidance. There were two groups of factors that were the primary causes of this difference. First, we sold more Snow Leopard, had a better product mix, and spent less on the iPod transition than planned. Second, component costs did increase, but not to the level we had expected, and we benefited from leverage on the higher revenue and lower freight and other costs than planned. Operating expenses were $1.42 billion and included $151 million of stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $45 million and the tax rate for the quarter was 26%.

Turning to cash, our cash, plus short-term and long-term marketable securities totaled $34 billion at the end of the September quarter, compared to $31.1 billion at the end of the June quarter, an increase of $2.9 billion. Cash flow from operations was $3.1 billion, and that was net of our $500 million prepayment to Toshiba early in the September quarter to secure future supply of NAND flash. Our investment priority for the cash continues to be preservation of capital, which has served us well in the current environment. We are continuing to focus on short-dated high quality investments and remain comfortable with our investment portfolio.

Looking ahead to the December quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. On September 23, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ratified EITF 09-3, which will change the way we account for iPhone and Apple TV today. Under EITF 09-3, only the estimated sales value of future upgrade rights to iPhone and Apple TV software are required to be deferred at the time of sale, with the balance of the iPhone and Apple TV sales price being recognized immediately as revenue. The deferred amounts will be recognized over the 24-month estimated lives of the product, similar to the way we have applied subscription accounting to these product sales today.

We don't know at this time the specific amount of revenue deferral for each iPhone and Apple TV sold under EITF 09-3, but we do believe a substantial portion of the revenue will be recognized for these products at the time of sale. We are very pleased with the FASB's adoption of this new rule, as we believe it will enable us to more closely align our reported results with the economics of the iPhone and Apple TV sales. We will be required to adopt the new accounting rule no later than the first quarter of our fiscal 2011, a year from now. But we do have the option of adopting earlier than that sometime in our fiscal 2010.

We are currently assessing impact of the new rule on our accounting and reporting systems and processes. Making this change will be complex and as of now, we are uncertain as to the timing of our adoption. Therefore, we don't have anything more specific to discuss with you today about this change. The guidance for the December quarter that we are providing today is based on the subscription accounting treatment that we have applied to date for the iPhone and Apple PV sales. In other words, it is based on the assumption that the full amounts of revenue and product costs for past and future iPhone and Apple TV sales continue to be recognized ratably over the estimated 24-month lives of the products.

Forecasting the current macroeconomic environment remains challenging, so we will continue to provide a range of guidance for the December quarter. For the December quarter, we expect revenues to be between about $11.3 billion and $11.6 billion. We expect gross margin to be about 34%, reflecting approximately $33 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $1.64 billion, including about $178 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $30 million, reflective of the short-term interest rate environment, and we expect a tax rate to be about 30%. We are targeting EPS in the range of about $1.70 to $1.78.

In closing, we are thrilled with our outstanding September quarter results and with our record fiscal 2009. For the year, we generated $36.5 billion in revenue and $5.7 billion in net income. That's 12% annual revenue growth and 18% net income growth in extraordinary challenging economic times. During the year, we continue to introduce incredibly innovative products, including the new aluminum unibody MacBook Pro, the iPhone 3GS and the iPhone OS 3.0, MacOS X Snow Leopard and of course the wildly new popular features and offerings in iTunes and the App Store. As we begin our fiscal 2010, we're looking forward to delivering additional exciting new products and are confident in our new product pipeline. We remain focused on our strategy of bringing the best and most innovative products and solutions to our customers, and we are very enthusiastic about the year ahead.

With that, I would like to open the call to questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Your first question will come from Richard Gardner with Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Okay, thank you. Peter, I was just hoping you could talk a little bit about the factors in forming your guidance for the following quarter, specifically, you know, why the sequential jump in revenue is so far below what you've experienced for the last couple years, and also, why gross margin should be down as much as you've guided sequentially, the main factors there. Thank you.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me start with gross margin. I'll come back to revenue. We expect gross margins to decline sequentially about 34%, primarily as a result of four factors. First, for the new products that we have and will announce, we are delivering greater value to our customers, and these products have lower gross margins than their predecessors. Second, and as expected, we will see a seasonally higher mix of iPods and expect Snow Leopard box sales to be less in their second quarter. And third, we'll incur significantly more air freight. And fourth, we expect component costs to be higher than what we saw in the September quarter.

Regarding our revenue, as you know, the education and back-to-school seasons have largely concluded and the December quarter has been typically driven by holiday purchases in the second half of the quarter. Our guidance this quarter includes double-digit revenue growth from last year, which was the best quarter from a revenue perspective in Apple's history. We're also seeing lower ASPs this year, but we remain very confident in our business. We're shipping the best products that we ever have in Apple's history and customers have clearly responded.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Rich. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Barclays Capital, Ben Reitzes.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Yeah, thanks a lot. Could you discuss -- I have two questions, one on iPhone, can you discuss channel inventory, what it was ending the quarter, and what the supply situation is, if there are any supply constraints during the quarter? We noticed lack of availability overseas and then that looked alleviated towards the end of the quarter and it would seem like there's pent-up demand heading into December. So if you could discuss that, that would be great.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Yes, hi, Ben. It's Tim. For much of the quarter, most of the countries where we're selling the iPhone 3G S was very low in inventory, as demand outstripped the supply. We did improve supply markedly in September, and supply and demand converged in the vast majority of countries, either in September or in early October. In terms of your channel inventory question, we now have about 2.4 million units in the channel and that's an additional 585,000 from the previous quarter end.

BEN REITZES: And are you comfortable with that, given that you have China launching and maybe even a few other GOs?

TIM COOK: I would have liked to have had more, honestly, because we were still short in some countries at quarter end. And as indicated, it was early October before we were able to get supply/demand balanced in some countries.

BEN REITZES: I know you don't want to quantify China maybe, but is there any certain levels of excitement you have and any limitations in terms of Apps and iTunes that may limit the sales out of the gate or anything else you could say qualitatively around that launch that gives us an idea of the velocity of units?

TIM COOK: We're thrilled to be launching there on October 30, with China Unicom, and we're going to start with about 1,000 points of sale and expand further over the next several months thereafter. They've announced the plans and prices that they will have both for the device and for the service, and there's a very wide range here from, on the post-paid side from $18 a month all the way up to $8500 a month. And at the higher price points, an individual is able to actually get the device for free, and it goes up as you go down the ARPU as it would in most countries. As you know, as we've shipped the 3G and the 2G phone prior to that, we discovered that there were quite a few phones going into China. So it would seem to us to indicate that there's a good opportunity and we're really excited to get started. We're not making any projections on, on the volume, but it's a huge market, the largest market in the world in terms of total phone, and I think it's very important that we get started to make it as large as possible on SmartPhones.

BEN REITZES: Do you guys have any updated comments on the economy? And that's my last question. It seemed like the quarter must have closed very strong, especially with those Mac numbers.

TIM COOK: We just spend our time projecting our business and leave the economy forecasting and comments to the economists.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That question comes from Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon, and congratulations. We're looking at the iPhone, it's pretty clear we're still in a green field opportunity here, but as you start to go to multiple carriers, can you talk a little bit about the pricing of the phone when you go from exclusivity to multiple carriers, obviously not specifics, but any sort of color we can have in terms of how the pricing dynamic changes from the phone from you to the carrier? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Our pricing is confidential, Gene, so it's not something I can comment on in detail, but generally speaking, from markets where we're already selling, I would not expect to see a wholesale difference as we bring on other carriers. However, the end user price is really set by the carrier themselves, and so you may or may not see a street price difference.

GENE MUNSTER: So when you go from exclusive to multiple carriers, you wouldn't necessarily see a change in pricing that you're charging the carrier, is that correct?

TIM COOK: That's correct.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Scott Craig from Banc of America.

SCOTT CRAIG, ANALYST, BAS-ML: Hi Tim. I know you don't have a lot of experience with the seasonality of the iPhone business, but how do you think about the seasonality here into the fourth quarter, and a question for Peter on tax, can you walk us through why the tax rate's going to go up here in the near term? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Yes. Ted, as you said, when we look at the September to December quarter, we have very few September to Decembers to look at in the iPhone business since we've just been selling for a couple of years. And in fact, in the vast majority of countries, we've only been selling in one, and in some of those, just a partial. And so honestly speaking, we, we're new in the business still and I think for me to make any kind of seasonality forecast would not be a good idea. The, the things that we look at in terms of coming up with our forecast would be the popularity of the iPhone 3GS has been phenomenal. We've -- we were very surprised by the demand.

We were selling in 64 countries by the end of the quarter. We'll roll out others this quarter, notably China, which has already been mentioned in the call. We hope to roll out in Korea as well. And as Gene mentioned previously, we will be adding some carriers in some countries where we only had one carrier before, such as the United Kingdom and Canada as an example. So those are the things that we think about as we think about our December forecast.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Scott, related to your tax question, our tax rate for the quarter was 26%. And it was below our guidance of 30, primarily due to a higher mix of foreign earnings. But for the year, we were about 29%. The past two years, we've been pretty much right on 30. So from what I see at this point for fiscal 2010, we'll see about 30% for our tax rate, really consistent with what we've seen in the last couple years.

SCOTT CRAIG: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Scott. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From RBC Capital Markets, Mike Abramsky.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. Tim, what are your thoughts in the holiday season, given the increased and competitive intensity against iPhone? There's a lot of obviously wannabes that are coming to market in that season, specifically Android and many are now offering touch screens and richer browser and app stores and are being given carrier support. How do you think about maintaining your momentum and differentiation amidst that kind of environment?

TIM COOK: Well, Mike, we feel great about how we ended the fiscal year with selling 7.4 million, as Peter talked about in the preamble. And that put us over 20 million, almost 21 million for the fiscal year, which was up 78% from before. And so we have significant momentum. Also, when you look at the ecosystem that we've got with iTunes and the App Store, where the App Store having over 85,000 Apps, which is a country mile more than anyone else, plus the very strong product pipeline that we have, we feel very, very good about suiting up and competing against anyone.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: And so--

TIM COOK: Go ahead.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: No, you go ahead.

TIM COOK: Frankly, I think that, that people are really just trying to catch up with the first iPhone that was announced two years ago, and we've long since moved beyond that.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Were you pleasantly surprised at the sort of mix of 3GS versus 99 and did that kind of, you know, what did that tell you perhaps about the value proposition of Apple and how that drives kind of iPhone going forward?

TIM COOK: As I indicated before, the 3GS, the demand for the 3GS did exceed our expectation and we quickly changed our orders and for components, et cetera that, are different between the models. I think it shows that there's a, an intense appetite for Apple's latest technology and we were, you know, very pleased with the results.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Thanks. Okay, thanks, Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mike. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We will hear with Shannon Cross with Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Hi, thank you. Could you talk a bit about the Mac business, you know, the channel inventory levels, what the mix has been now that you've had a couple of, you know, a few months since the refresh of your lineup on the portable side?

TIM COOK: Sure, Shannon. This is Tim. Last quarter was the quarter of the portable. Up 35% year-over-year compared to IDC at 9%, and so we really had a blow-out quarter for portables, and it's the result of the lineup that we announced in June and as you know, we had backlog entering the quarter on t that line.

Also, the Mac was helped by the back-to-school, which was the strongest back-to-school we had ever had, as Peter talked about, and the launch of Snow Leopard, which occurred later in the quarter, and so there was a group of things that came together to push us to a level above 3 million, which was beyond our own expectations internally, or even some of our stretch targets. From a channel inventory point of view, we started the quarter between three and four weeks. We ended the quarter between three and four weeks. And to be specific on the inventory change, so there's no misunderstanding, the inventory changed less than 15,000 units from beginning to end. And so we had very minor growth, particularly when you compare that to the growth in sales from a sequential point of view.

SHANNON CROSS: Great, and then just any idea of the penetration of Snow Leopard right now out in the installed base? I think you mentioned, you expect -- Peter mentioned fewer shipments of box sales in the coming quarter. But any idea where you're at?

TIM COOK: The upgrade sales of Snow Leopard, which we include the family in the box set were more than double what we experienced from Leopard over the same five-week initial sales period. And so this doubling was much more than we had planned and was very pleasantly surprised by it.

SHANNON CROSS: Great. I guess the price cut worked. So thank you.

TIM COOK: Yes, it did. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Credit Suisse, we'll hear from Bill Shope.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, guys. Last year, you provided some commentary around longer-term gross margin trends. Do you have any thoughts on this for fiscal 2010 or at least how we should think about this longer term?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Bill. I'll give you some qualitative thoughts. For the December quarter, I guided to about 34%. I don't want to make forecast today for future quarters on a quantitative basis, but I think there's two things that you ought to be aware of. First, for some key components, costs are rising and I think that's visible to, to you. And second, we are continuing to focus on delivering state of the art products at price points that our competitors can't match. And we are going to continue to provide ever-increasing value to our customers.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you very much. Just on the iPhone, would the wholesale price for the iPhone the same whether you have an exclusive agreement or whether you have multiple carriers, what are the benefits of having exclusive agreements in some of the bigger countries?

TIM COOK: Well, for Apple or for the carrier?

DAVID BAILEY: For Apple.

TIM COOK: In an exclusive relationship, you can generally have some level of innovation that's very difficult, or would be more difficult to do with several carriers. Visual voicemail was an example of that that we had in the initial iPhone, as you recall. Also, in some cases, an exclusive carrier may be willing to invest more, although there is -- we found no lack of people wanting to sell iPhones, frankly. And so I'm not sure whether that is true on a broad basis or not. But I think that's maybe true in some individual cases. And other than that, I would ask them, because they can probably give you a better view than I could.

DAVID BAILEY: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, David. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. Two questions here. Tim, can you give us any sense qualitatively in terms of what Apple has seen with respect to the impact of the remodeled stores, as well as the increasing penetration of the Apple retail stores internationally? I assume you see synergies with your direct and indirect sales levels because of these initiatives, or is it still too early to determine?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: it's Peter, I'll take that question. We are seeing strong results from our remodel stores. Ron and his team have remodeled, as I said this year, 72 of the stores to bring them to our most updated design. And those designs are providing the best customer, customer experience in the industry bar none, whether it be up front in the selling part of the store or certainly in the back of the store, with the genius bars or the creative bars. And customers are having a great experience. In terms of international, the growth there was quite strong in the quarter. Our average store revenue was actually up over 20% for our international stores this quarter.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: And then Peter, the other question revolves around the OpEx ratio going forward. You've talked in your prepared remarks about 2010, the new product pipeline. Can you give us any sense in terms of how should investors think about the R&D or SG&A moving up? Is it going to kind of hold steady, or will there be any sort of changes regarding that pipeline?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't want to give a specific quantitative percent. I think over the last year, we have managed operating expenses well, but we have been investing confidently for our future, especially in engineering and our distribution and our marketing and advertising. We, we saw the benefits in the last downturn, in 2001 and 2002, of coming out of that with just an amazingly strong product pipeline, and we're repeating that very positive lesson this time around. So I think we're being careful with money.

NANCY PAXTON: We're making good choices and, but continuing to invest wisely and confidently in our future.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mark. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. Couple questions, please. You had very strong ASP performance in both Macs and iPhones. On the Mac side, you're typically down because of the back-to-school promotion because of ASPs. You were up even on the notebook side this quarter. Can you comment on that? And on the iPhone side it, does look like your ASP went up $40 or $50 sequentially on a cash basis. You had stated last quarter that 3GS was outstripping the $99 phone, so was it mix alone, or is it something else around currency translation or something else that is affecting that?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Hi, Toni. It's Peter. Let me start with iPhone. The iPhone ASP in the quarter was just over $600, and this reflected both a high mix of the 3GS sell-through, and also the benefit of rebalancing the ending channel inventory more towards the 3GS as a result of the introduction. On a sequential basis, yes, our ASPs were up a bit in the portable space. This was really a function of our seeing a higher mix of our new MacBook Pros.

As Tim commented, very, very strong quarter after the June introduction. We had the best back-to-school season that we have ever had. And on a sequential basis, we also got a little benefit from the dollar as well. On a year-over-year basis, the dollar was a negative. But sequentially, it was a small positive.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then on the availability issues that you had on the phone, was that a good old fashioned demand exceeds supply issue, or were there any component availability issues that constrained your supply and related to that, you had also mentioned that air freight, you expected to go up next quarter as a reason for gross margins. I'm not sure if that was in relation to phones or anything else, but perhaps you can address that as well.

TIM COOK: On the availability portion, Tony, the, the iPhone 3GS demand outstripped the supply of the iPhone 3GS, so you would probably put that in your first category of a good old fashioned -- a demand issue, which is a nice problem to have in the scheme of things. Now, because we, because it was outstripping supply, it creates component shortages as we go out to the market to secure more components, and generally speaking, the ones that are hardest to get is silicon, and so it takes a little longer. However, I was really happy that we were able to solve the bulk of these, the vast majority of them in September or in early October.

So I feel good about how we're positioned now. The air freight is not related to the iPhone. So these are unrelated topics. But generally speaking, the air freight is planned to get enough units into the channel in time for the holidays and is necessary for that reason.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Now, is it, is that air freight non that you had that typically in most Q4s and accordingly, is that larger than usual for this quarter because your demand perception may have changed over the last 30 or 60 days, or is that just a normal sequential seasonal head wind to margins that you always experience?

TIM COOK: It's more than normal. And so you're correct that in general, we spend more in freight in Q1. However, this increase is larger than usual. And I'm sorry I can't be specific on the product, but it's, it's, it's an abnormal sequential increase.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From UBS, we'll hear from Maynard Um.

MAYNARD UM, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Can you talk about how many non-Apple store retail distribution points have you and whether there's more growth there. I'm just trying to think about the mix of your retail stores versus your indirect going forward and then as a follow-up question on CapEx.

TIM COOK: Maynard, is that specific to the Mac or--

MAYNARD UM: For the Mac, yes.

TIM COOK: For the Mac, we have a little less than 13,000 worldwide and our focus in terms of expansion in the indirect channel is much more so in the international areas, in international market. As you probably could tell from our results, we grew the Mac much stronger outside the US than inside the US, and I'm sure part of that is just the economics difference between the two, but the international business, typically in Europe and in Asia was extremely strong last quarter.

MAYNARD UM: Okay, and just in particular to Europe, just was that broad-based, or western or eastern, any more specific than Europe?

TIM COOK: Yes, I can give you some highlights. If you look at the leads, Spain was extremely strong, which I know is going to be a surprise, was over 40%. Germany was 40%. France was 39%, and so you had Western Europe less than UK extremely strong, a tremendous multiple from market growth. And even countries, Switzerland and Italy were in the mid-30s. And so several European countries of sizable countries were incredibly strong.

MAYNARD UM: Great, and then just on the CapEx, about 4.7% of your sales. I'm just trying to understand, I know you have the new stores in there, but aside from that, you talk about normal replacement of existing capital assets, manufacturing-related equipment. Any more details you can provide on that piece of the CapEx that's being spent on the capital assets, and in particular what that is, when that should start to decrease as a percentage of sales?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Not sure I look at that as a percent of sales, but in fiscal 2009, our CapEx was about $1.150 billion, up from about $1.1 billion last year. We spent a little under $400 million in both years on retail stores. As I look forward, we're going to continue to confidently open retail stores and keep them fresh and exciting from a remodel perspective. The other parts of our business, we are spending capital on facilities, infrastructure, and in the manufacturing spaces as well. But at 1.1 billion in the last two years, we've not been terribly capital-intensive. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Maynard. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Deutsche Bank, we hear from Chris Whitmore.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Couple questions, first on the Mac business, looking forward to the December quarter, do you expect to hold Mac units roughly flat sequentially?

TIM COOK: The things that we're considering, we don't give Mac-specific forecast, as you know, or product-specific forecast, but the things I think you should consider, that we considered anyway in coming up with our numbers, the September quarter was benefited by a 50,000 units order from the state of Maine. This completed the 70,000-unit order, the other 20,000 had shipped in our fiscal Q3. It also benefited from an extremely strong back-to-school season and we had an extremely strong promotion wrapped around that, as you're aware. We also had Snow Leopard, and it's -- with every new OS, you have some pent-up demand that ships with the operating system as people hold to get the latest software. And finally, and I wouldn't underestimate this, the demand for the portables that we announced in June was a key for the quarter at 35% growth, and some of that was demand that was probably, probably existed in June, but we were unable to fill. So it got the quarter off to a very good start. So those are the things that we thought about as we forecasted the Mac business.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Second question on iPhone supply, can you quantify the magnitude of the unit shortfall? In other words, what do you think you could have shipped, had you had adequate supply during the quarter?

TIM COOK: It's a very tough question to answer, because unfortunately, we can't run the experiment both ways. What I know is that for the, for almost the entire quarter, until we got into September, the iPhone 3GS was short virtually everywhere. What I don't know is how many people waited until it was available versus bought a competitive phone, and there's just -- there is not a good way to tell that. Are you on track to reach 80 countries by year end for iPhone shipments? iPhone availability?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: To be specific, we already shipped the iPhone 3G in over 80 today. We shipped the 3GS in 64 countries as of the end of last quarter and we would forecast that we would be in over 80 by the end of the calendar year, with the 3GS.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Last question relates to guidance. Given the accounting change in my opinion, GAAP accounting loses some meaning. Can you provide a range of pro forma expectations for December? I think that would be more meaningful to the investment community.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I provided you the guidance that, that we provided, is very detailed, and consistent with when we began to ship the iPhone, we provide guidance on GAAP and we will report to you, you know, our numbers in January for the December quarter.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Chris. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Shaw Wu with Kaufman Brothers.

SHAW WU, ANALYST, KAUFMAN BROTHERS: Hi, thanks. I have a question on the, I guess the enterprise business. Two questions. First, on the, on your iPhone business, any color you can share with us, the breakout between consumer and enterprise, at least qualitatively and how that's been trending? And then the second question is what are the key features with Snow Leopard is native support for exchange. Any comment on how that's helping your enterprise effort? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Shaw, it's Tim. In terms of the iPhone in the corporate market, what I can tell you is employee demand for iPhone in the corporate environment is very strong. Since the launch of the iPhone 3GS, which coupled with the software made a number of improvements that CIOs were looking for. The iPhone is either being deployed or being piloted in well over 50% of the Fortune 100. And from an international point of view, if you look at Europe, this is true in about 50% of the Financial Times 100. So we feel very good with the progress that we've made since the iPhone 3GS was announced.

Also, another very key market for us that some people call enterprise is that over 350 higher ed institutions have approved iPhones for their faculty, staff and students. And in addition to both of these, we continue to be very, very happy with our sales in the government arena. In terms of Snow Leopard and Exchange, I don't have any statistics to go over with you yet. It's very early. As you know, we just started shipping at the end of August last quarter. And so we'll see how that does, but it clearly makes it very simple for the windows user to, with exchange, working right out of the box.

SHAW WU: Thanks for the color.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shaw. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Brian Marshall with Broadpoint AmTech.

BRIAN MARSHALL, ANALYST, BROADPOINT AMTECH: Hi, thanks. Nice quarter. I guess a question with regards to the enterprise as well. I think last quarter you may have commented, you know, there's several government agencies out there that have kind of 30,000-plus iPhone units installed. I was wondering if we could get an update there on maybe some granular specifics of some of this?

TIM COOK: No new update on specific numbers, but we continue to be very pleased with the market and the number of agencies that are adopting the iPhone.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Okay, and the same with regards to corporate entities as well?

TIM COOK: I just went through that in the previous call, but to repeat it, well over 50% of the Fortune 100 are deploying or piloting the iPhone, and this strength is also happening internationally and if you take Europe over -- about 50% of the Financial Times 100 are deploying or actively evaluating iPhone for broad deployment. And so these numbers for -- are very impressive to us and we feel like we're making great progress in this market.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Definitely. And Tim, I think that you commented in the past that three of that Fortune 100 had 25,000 units or greater. Any update there by chance?

TIM COOK: None that we can provide. As you probably guessed, many of these companies would like to keep their specific numbers confidential.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Understood, thanks. And final question, any chance that the international activations grew on a year-over-year basis for the iPhone? Thank you.

TIM COOK: Well, iPhone sell-through was up 38% year-over-year. As Peter went through in the preamble, last year and I think it's very important to remember, we expanded channel inventory by about 2 million units because it was the launch of the iPhone 3G during that quarter. We only grew inventory this particular year by less than 600,000. And so that sell-through increase of 38% compares to a projected rate of market growth of 5% from Canalis and so it's a, you know, a significant multiple to market growth based on the market statistics that we have.

BRIAN MARSHALL: And that 5%, just to clarify, is international?

TIM COOK: That 5% is a worldwide number, but I'm--

BRIAN MARSHALL: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Brian. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From FTN Equity Capital, we'll hear from Bill Fearnley.

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN EQUITY CAPITAL: Question for you on the Macintosh side, if I could do a deeper dive on the education sector. Question for Tim, you guys have been pretty cautious regarding state spending here given the tax issues that you've quoted for the different states. So what powered the upside in education specifically K-12 and higher ed? And then also, if you could give additional color on what happened in the student buy versus your expectation as well, given the popularity of notebooks for students? Then I had one follow-up, if I could.

TIM COOK: Let me start with the last one first. The student buy, you can see those numbers trickling through our retail results and you can't see this, because we don't break it out separately, specifically helped our online results and the institutions buy through book stores. And so the back-to-school season -- attribute a great piece of that to the individual business that you're talking about. In terms of the institutional business, I've been worried about state spending. I'm still worried about state spending. We saw no material stimulus funding flowing last quarter.

We saw a little, but it was a very small number. We may see more this quarter, but it's too early to tell. In terms of the institutional increase, institutions grew about 12%, and that increase was the big thing that pushed us over the zero mark there was the state of Maine order. And so it was extremely key in the education institution achievement.

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay, thanks. And then on Mac inventory, just doing a deeper dive here on the air freight question, I know you won't talk about the product, but what's driving the increase in air freight? Is the timing of new announcements? Are you having issues with component availability? Are you running into manufacturing yield issues? You know, why the, why the uptick here?

TIM COOK: What's driving the air freight is that I haven't been able to figure out a way to move the holiday season, and so we have to get all of these units into the channel for the holiday sales. And I'm sorry, I can't be more specific than that.

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. Thanks, guys.

TIM COOK: We have to have a little bit of fun on these calls.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. And that concludes our Q&A session today. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks. As a Podcast on the iTunes store. The webcast on Apple.com/investor and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820. The confirmation code is 1248587. And these replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896 and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gdemog : Demographics | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091102e5aj0015r
  


 HD
 Q3  2009 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,822 words
   PD
21 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to the Apple Incorporated third quarter fiscal year 2009 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by Apple's COO, Tim Cook and Treasurer Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts.

   TD
Please note that some of the information you will hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements including without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2008. The forms 10-Q for the first two fiscal quarters of 2009, and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speaks of the respective date.

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us.

We are very pleased to report record June quarter revenue and earnings and to once again report the highest non-holiday quarter revenue and earnings in Apple's history. It was an extremely busy quarter for new product introductions and customers have responded enthusiastically. Revenue for the June quarter was $8.34 billion, representing 12% growth over the prior June quarter's results. We are very proud of this result, particularly given the economic environment around us. Operating margin percentage for the quarter was over 20%, higher than our guidance, due to better than expected revenue and gross margin. Net income was $1.23 billion, which translated to earnings per share of $1.35.

In terms of non-GAAP measures, adjusted sales totaled $9.7 billion for the June quarter, which was $1.4 billion higher than our reported revenue. Adjusted gross margin was $4 billion, which was $1 billion higher than our reported gross margin. And adjusted net income was$1.9 billion, $700 million higher that than our reported net income. We continue to believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide added transparency to our business and hope they are helpful to you in your analysis and understanding of our performance.

Turning to the details of our results, I would like to begin with our Mac products and services. We generated outstanding sales of 2.6 million Macs, setting a new June quarter record, and nearly meeting the Al time quarterly record we set last September. Mac sales increased by more than 100,000 units over the prior year's June quarter. This represents 4% year-over-year growth, and compares favorably to IBC's latest published estimate of a 3% contraction for market overall. We followed up the transition of our entire desk top lineup in March, with significant updates to our entire portable lineup in the June quarter, delivering increased performance and value across the line.

Mac portable shipments increased 13% year-over-year, driven by continued strong growth in sales of MacBooks and our new MacBook pros. Customer response to the new portables have been very favorable and we saw an acceleration of sales following the launch. We began and ended the quarter with between 3 and 4 weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Now I'll turn to our music products. We sold 10.2 million iPods, which was down from 11 million in the year ago quarter. There were two key reasons for this decline: First, we reduced channel inventory by over 400,000. Second, sell-through declined by 4% year-over-year.

I would like to discuss how we're looking at this market. We have three categories of what we call pocket products. Traditional MP3 players, iPod Touch, and iPhone. For traditional MP3 players, which include shuffle, nano and classic, we saw a year-over-year decline, which we internally had forecasted to occur. This is one of the original reasons we developed the iPhone and the iPod Touch. We expect our traditional MP3 players to decline over time, as we cannibalize ourselves with the iPod Touch and the iPhone. However, we have a great business that we believe will last for many, many years, and which we will continue to manage well, and offer the world's most innovative products.

Despite the decline in our sales, our research shows that about 50% of our recent traditional iPod purchasers are buying their first iPod, including those in our high market share countries, such as the US, Japan, Australia, Canada, and the UK. The iPod Touch did extremely well in the quarter, growing more than 130% year-over-year. Customers continued to embrace this outstanding platform experience, which has been increasingly enhanced by the tremendous offerings of the App Store.

Our share of the US market continues to be over 70%, based on the latest monthly data published by NPD and iPod was the top selling MP3 player and continued to gain share year-over-year in nearly every country we tracked based on the latest data published by GFK. We began and ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPod channel inventory.

I would now like to turn to the iPhone. We are thrilled to have sold over 5.2 million handsets in the June quarter, compared to 717,000 handsets sold in the year ago quarter. Response to the new iPhone 3G-S has been tremendous bus with over 1 million 3G-S handsets sold by the third day after its June 19th launch. We are currently unable to make enough iPhone 3G-S to meet demand and we're working to address. There customers and reviewers have been very impressed by its improved speed, 3-megapixel auto focus camera, video recording capability, and hands free voice control. The iPhone 3G- is available in 18 countries today and we're quickly rolling it out this summer to the rest of the 80-plus countries where iPhones are sold.

Customers are loving the new iPhone OS 3.0 release which includes more than 100 new features including cut, copy and paste, MMF, spotlight search, a landscape keyboard for mail, and expanded parental controls for iTunes and App Store contents. The App Store now offers over 65,000 applications and the iPhone OS 3.0 software has helped pave the way for developers to create even more innovative applications with many new features, including in-App purchases, a new MAPS API, peer to peer connections around push notifications. Customer response to the App Store has been phenomenal and we were thrilled to announce the 1.5 billionth download last week. The App Store is a key strategic differentiator of the iPhone and iPod Touch experience, and we believe that outstanding software is the key ingredient for a great mobile experience.

Recognized revenue from iPhone handset sales, accessory sales, and carrier payments was $1.69 billion during the quarter compared to $419 million in the year ago quarter. An increase of over 300%. The sales volume iPhone sold during the quarter was $2.9 billion.

Since we announced specific new features of iPhone OS 3.0 on March 17th, we did not begin to recognize revenue or product cost for any iPhone sold from March 17th until the iPhone OS 3.0 software became available on June 17th. For those iPhones, revenue and product costs are being recognized ratably, over the remaining terms of their respective 24-month estimated lives from June 17th forward. The iTunes store delivered another great quarter, fueled by strong sales of music, video and apps. With the introduction of the iPhone OS 3.0 last month, the iTunes experience keeps getting better. iPhone OS 3.0 software allows customers to wirelessly download movies, TV, and audio programs directly to an iPhone or an iPod Touch. And I'm pleased to report that as of last week, customers have purchased and downloaded over 8 billion songs from the iTunes store, yet another remarkable milestone.

I would like to now turn to the Apple retail stores. The stores recognized $1.5 billion of revenue during the June quarter compared to $1.45 billion in the year ago quarter. Our stores sold 492,000 Macs compared to 476,000 Macs in the year ago quarter. And about half the Macs sold in our stores during the June quarter were to customers who never owned a Mac before. We opened six new stores during the quarter, bringing us to 258 stores, and we also completed 27 store room models. With an average of 254 stores open during the quarter, average revenue per store was $5.9 million compared to $6.8 million in the year ago quarter. Retail segment margin was $321 million or 21.5%, up from $297 million or 20.6% in the year ago quarter.

We hosted 38.6 million visitors in our stores during the quarter, compared to 31.7 million visitors in the year-ago quarter. An increase of 22%. We successfully launched a new and improved one-to-one program and hosted a record 667,000 personal training sessions during the quarter. We remain on track to open a total of about 25 stores during fiscal 2009 and to complete the remodel of 100 stores to our new design. We are also looking forward to opening our first store in France during the holiday quarter.

Total company gross margin was 36.3%, which was 330 basis points better than our guidance. This difference was primarily driven by three factors: First, component cost did increase, but not to the level we had expected. Second, we spent less than we had expected in several operating areas, including warranty and manufacturing tools. And, third, we efficiently ramped our new products in the quarter, spending less than we had planned. Additionally, and to a lesser extent, we benefited from a weaker US dollar and from leverage on higher revenue than we planned. Operating expenses were $1.35 billion, consistent with our guidance and included $151 million of stock base compensation expense. OI&E was $60 million and the tax rate for the quarter was 29%.

Turning to cash, our cash plus short-term to long-term marketable securities totaled $31.1 billion at the end of the June quarter, compared to $28.9 billion at the end of the March quarter, an increase of over $2.2 billion. Cash flow from operations in the June quarter was $2.3 billion. Our investment priority for the cash continues to be preservation of capital, which has served us well in the current environment. We are continuing to focus on short dated high quality investments and remain comfortable with our investment portfolio. And while it is not reflected in our June quarter results, in the first week of the September quarter, we made a $500 million prepayment to Toshiba for future supply of NAND flash.

Looking ahead to the September quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking statement that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We will continue our practice of providing guidance based on GAAP and report our September quarter non-GAAP financial measures to you in October when we release our results.

Forecasting in the current macro environment remains challenging, so we will continue to provide a range of guidance for the September quarter. We expect revenues to be between $8.7 billion and $8.9 billion. We expect gross margin to be about 34%. reflecting approximately $28 million related to stock-base compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $1.445 billion, including $150 million related to stock base compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $30 million, reflective of the short-term interest rate environment, and we expect the tax rate to be about 30%. We are targeting EPS in the range of about $1.18 to $1.23.

In closing, we are thrilled to report record June quarter results and with customers reception of our new portables, iPhone OS 3.0, and the iPhone 3G-S. We are very enthusiastic about the upcoming launch Snow Leopard and the enhanced performance and user experience that we'll offer to our Mac customers. We remain confident in our strategy, and new product pipeline, and we're working hard to continue to deliver the industry's most exciting and innovative products. With that, I would like to open the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). And your first question will come from Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations. Two brief questions. First on the Mac side, judging by the product lead times, the demand for the new lower price MacBook Pro caught you off guard. How do you see that demand turning to the September quarter? And second can you talk from a high level of how you see the relationship of the wireless carriers involving.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Hey, Gene. It's Tim. In terms of the MacBook Pro, there are a couple of models that I believe we will get beyond in this the next few weeks. We don't view it as a constraint. It had a material effect on last quarter, and we factored our view of supply in the guidance that Peter shared with you. In terms of the relationship with the wireless carriers, I think that most of the carriers that we're doing business with are thrilled over the lower churn that they experience and the higher ARPUs and the customers are demanding the iPhone. So I feel like we've got a very good set of relationships and are obviously continuing to look to expand those.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Maybe to ask it more specifically, do you see an opportunity beyond the iPhone with the carrier, for example, AT&T with data plans and laptops, or AT&T's living room initiative with Uverse offering.

TIM COOK: We have nothing to announce today in terms of other things with the carriers. We're very focused on working with the carriers on iPhone.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And then I guess on AT&T, any update on the status of that relationship?

TIM COOK: I think it's an excellent relationship and we're very happy with it.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Can we have the next question please.

OPERATOR: It will come with Bill Fearnley with FTN Equity Capital.

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN EQUITY CAPITAL.: Yes, thanks. If I could, on the mix here, when you look at consumer spending and you look at K-12 and state and local government in the pro segment in the quarter, is there any detail you can give on the education on the pro segment and then I have a quick follow-up.

TIM COOK: Sure, Bill. It's Tim. Relative to the market, the consumer market performed relatively better for us. The US K12 institutional business is weak, as you might expect. It is getting hit by budget shortfalls. And last quarter we saw very negligible amounts, if any, of the stimulus funds flow all the way to the state and district levels to get set. And so that may or may not occur this quarter. In the pro business, the pro business has also been affected more by the economy than the consumer businesses. And you can see that some in our ASPs as people that were buying those that were in commercial accounts and small business accounts are delaying purchases.

BILL FEARNLEY: Tim, you've talked about higher ed growth and K-12 institutional growth before. Can you give us those numbers for this quarter.

TIM COOK: Overall, we were negative 6% in the institutional business. The K-12 business was more negative than that and the higher ed business was around the 0% level.

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And then one other, if I could. In terms of preliminary view after the price changes on mix with the older MacBook, the $999 and then the newer form factor, any additional details you can give us on the first 30 days of what you saw about mix shift with the price changes?

TIM COOK: Generally, as you can see from the data sheet that you've got, our units grew faster than our revenue in the portable area. So ASP did fall some. And one of the reasons is the price cuts that we took. Another is the transitional cost of doing that. What was a major transition of replacing the whole lineup basically in a day. So we are seeing a mix down versus historic. And we think part of that is that the commercial customer who is buying up in the line is delaying purchases in this weak economy. Of course we're thrilled with our overall results. To grow 4% with IDC full testing at negative three and Gartner forecasting a negative five, that puts us 7-9 points ahead of the market. And we're thrilled with those performance numbers.

BILL FEARNLEY: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Goldman Sachs we'll hear from David Bailey.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks a lot. I know you don't break out the SKUs of the iPhone explicitly. Can you give us some idea of how the $99 iPhone is doing relative to the other price points and have you seen a mix from launch either away from or towards the lower end phone?

TIM COOK: There is two pieces of information I can give you, David. One is that as we made the changes, the two changes, both the launch of the 3G-S and the price reduction of the 3G, we saw significant acceleration in total unit sales. I don't want to give you the precise mix, because we view that as competitive data and obviously want to hold that tight. As Peter alluded to in his opening comments, the iPhone 3G-S is constrained in virtually every country we're shipping it in. So the demand has been very robust. I think it speaks to the great product that it is and we're working very hard to fill that demand.

DAVID BAILEY: Great. And then just a follow-up on that. Can you give us an update on the progress you've made in large enterprise accounts with the iPhone and how you look at that opportunity over the next year.

TIM COOK: I think it's a great opportunity for us. And as you might guess, we're seeing growing interest with the release of the 3G-S and iPhone OS 3.0. Due to the hardware encryption and the improved securities policies. The phone is particularly doing well with small business and with large organizations that allow people to purchase the phones for individual use. And this is both in corporate and government settings.

Specifically to give you some numbers, almost 20% of the Fortune 100 have purchased at least 10,000 units or more. And there is now multiple corporations and government agencies who have purchased an excess of 25,000 each. We also had the iPhone approved in over 300 higher education institutions. And so we feel really good about how we're doing. And you may have noticed, also, that the most recent study by JD Powers has ranked the iPhone the highest in overall satisfaction with business customers. And so we think that we're just at the tip of the iceberg in terms of what the iPhone can do with business customers.

DAVID BAILEY: Great. Thanks a lot.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you.

TIM COOK: Thanks, David.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, David. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: And moving on, we'll hear from Richard Gardner with Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi. Thanks. Peter, I was just wondering regarding your revenue guidance, you're guiding up roughly 4 to 7% sequentially. But you've got a couple hundred million of iPhone deferred revenue coming off the balance sheet, and obviously you're doing very well with the new products. So I was wondering why you're guiding generally in line with last year's increase and maybe a little bit below what we would consider normal seasonality for the September quarter. Thanks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Rich, we give you guidance that we have reasonable confidence in achieving. So no change in our thinking. Let me talk a little bit about Mac and iPod and iPhone. For Mac, while we usually see an increase in Mac units from the June to September quarters, and we expect to see one this year, we would expect the sequential increase to be less than previous years since we refreshed every portable last quarter and the desktops in the March quarter making the comparison up sequentially tougher for us. Additionally, as Tim just commented, the US education institution sales remain under pressure from budget shortfalls.

With regard to iPod similar to June, we would expect the traditional MP3 players to decline year-over-year. But iPod Touch to grow significantly. And for phone, last year we sold very few phones in the June quarter after the results of the July transition and 7 million in September, which included 2 million units of channel fill. This year, we introduced iPhone 3 GS in June selling 5.2 million in the quarter.

And in terms of assessing how we'll do, going from June to September, we're very optimistic about the product. It's off to a great start. But we just don't have any experience in this seasonality with distribution as wide as we've got it. So we'll report to you in October how we did.

RICHARD GARDNER: Thanks, Peter.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Can we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From Barclays, we'll hear from Ben Reitzes.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Peter, can you talk about gross margins. You've obviously the last two quarters handily exceeded any of your expectations in guiding above. At one point you said 30% for September and now we're at 34. And does that mean that the long-term estimate of 30% no longer holds, and that we should probably model something at least higher than 30 due to maybe better execution or something in your business model that's changed?

TIM COOK: The teams are executing phenomenally well. So that's something that we're very proud of. And I think the results have benefited from that. Regarding gross margins for the September quarter, we've had a chance to go through our complete process and I'm guiding to 34% for the September quarter, which is down from the 36% that we just reported. We expect the margins to decline sequentially as a result of a full quarter of back to school promotion. And full quarter of our new portables and also higher component cost.

I don't want to make comments today about future quarters, but I'll give you a couple things that are on our mind. First, for many key components, costs are rising and you're seeing that in the market as well. And, secondly, we will continue to focus on delivering state of the art products at price points that our competitors can't match, and we are going to provide customers ever increasing volume. And so as you think about quarters beyond September, I would urge you to consider those factors.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thanks. And with regard to the surge at the end of the quarter of Iphones, 5.2 million and you're constrained on the 3G-S, what is the inventory situation like? I mean, you were running at over a million, I believe, Tim. And how did you end the quarter on inventory and how does the demand look heading into the next one?

TIM COOK: The iPhone channel inventory was flat sequentially, so it was approximately the same number from the beginning of the quarter and at the end of the quarter. And what that means, obviously, is since we were selling a lot more units at the end that we do not have a channel loaded with the numbered units that we would like at this time. And can you see that in terms of stock out on the 3G-S.

BEN REITZES: What is that unit number, and then I'll cede the floor here.

TIM COOK: The unit number.

BEN REITZES: Of inventory?

TIM COOK: Consistent with what I said before. You can do the math. But it's about 1.83 million . Just

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot, Tim.

TIM COOK: That includes in transit that we invoiced and demos we've counted in a conservative manner.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: It will come from Bill Shope with Credit Suisse.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Okay, great thanks, guys. Looking at the response you've seen on the $999 MacBook and the more recent MacBook Pro price cuts, can you comment on whether the Mac business is more or less elastic than you previously anticipated, and perhaps give us an idea of how you're thinking about elasticity in this business over the longer term?

TIM COOK: We're obviously thrilled with the results that we've had since we've done the portable announcement. Mac sales did accelerate after the announcement, WWDC and shipment of the portables, and we feel great about how they're selling. As we expected, there's some number of people that are buying up, because they can now get a MacBook Pro for $1199, whereas, it wasn't too many months ago that to buy a MacBook Pro it would cost $1999, so we've made a significant change there. So we're not thinking fundamentally different about the Mac business than we were before. Our goal has been and continues to be to build the best computers in the world. And when we can do that at lower prices, we do that. When we can't, we won't put the Apple brand on a product that doesn't stand for innovation and doesn't have the legendary ease of use that we're known for.

BILL SHOPE: Any chance you can give us some quantitative color on the gross margin EPS impact from the delayed iPhone recognition in the June quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sorry. I can't do anything specifically. You can make an estimate of what the revenues might have been now that you know the June quarter sales. And you can take a shot at the related gross margin.

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Great. We'll do that. Thanks .

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Cross Research, we'll hear from Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Thank you. Good afternoon. Could you give us an update on Snow Leopard and how we should think about the $29 price point. I'm kind of curious as to what throws the decision to go so low and how are you thinking about potential adoption rates.

TIM COOK: Yes. It's Tim. Snow Leopard is an even better Leopard. It redefines about 90% of the projects that make up OS X and it includes a lot of powerful new core technologies and builds Microsoft Exchange support right into the OS which is something that even Windows PC does not do. We priced it very aggressively so that all of our users can upgrade to it. And we're hoping that they do that. As we announced at WWDC, we continue to expect to ship it later this quarter.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Great. And then just a follow-up on the commodities. I'm just curious as to which ones you expect to be sort of challenging going forward and how should we think about the prebuy with Toshiba and should we continue to expect additional prebuys depending on what you think in terms of what you think of inventory and demand and pricing.

TIM COOK: In terms of going forward, the market for DRAM and the market for large-size LCDs has shifted to a constrained environment. And the pricing has moved accordingly. The NAN/market has now begun to stabilize and we expect it to move towards a supply/demand balance. Hard drives and optical drives and pricing is declining at less than historical rates as a result of in terms of the Toshiba pre buy, we did a long-term agreement with Toshiba. As part of the terms and conditions, we paid them $500 million as a prepay earlier in the quarter as Peter had said. We view flash as a very key component for us, because as you know, we use it in so many of our products. And also, we're a reasonable percentage of the user of flash on a worldwide basis.

SHANNON CROSS: In terms of doing additional deals, we are always open to doing additional deals with the right terms and conditions. And as you know, we've done two in this fiscal year. We announced one with LG earlier on LCD. And we may do others but there's not one that we're currently working on. But I don't close that door because we are always looking at different things. Great. Thank you very much.

TIM COOK: Thanks, Shannon.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. I think last quarter you had commented that the percentage of $999 Macs had increased sequentially. Can you comment on this quarter? It sounds like there was a mix shift to the low end because of continued economic uncertainty, yet you lowered Mac prices which was -- excuse me, MacBook Pro prices which was stimulative on the Pro. So to give us a sense on how consumers netted out, was your $999 offering a bigger percentage of total Mac notebooks this quarter than it was last quarter and can you give us a little more color on the dynamics?

TIM COOK: Toni, I don't want to give you exact mix numbers for competitive reasons, but let me share with you at a macro point what we saw happening last quarter. After the transition, not our non-education business, we saw people upselling from the $999 to the $1199 MacBook pro. Obviously for $200, it's a significant amount of features and so we saw that occurring last quarter. Before the transition, we saw a mix that was larger than after it to the $999. But we did see that change at the developers conference. Education itself, when you carve education itself out, the bulk of what K-12 would be would be the lower price unit. And we sell it for even lower prices than the consumer price obviously.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then can you comment on the dynamics on the iPhone side. It sounds like the lower price point of the $99 3-G phone actually served perhaps more as a traffic driver for the 3G-S phone than would anticipated. Was that the role or the product itself a meaningful contributor to the iPhone story?

TIM COOK: We're happy -- we're focused on total iPhone units, Toni. And so we're very happy when the total comes out to the 52 number and we're thrilled over it. I think it's too early to tell what the ultimate mix of those products will be. Because as you know, the iPhone 3G-S is constrained and also it's only shipping in 18 countries of the 80 plus that we're in. And so I think it will take some amount of time. Also there's a phenomenon at the beginning of purchasing where you have people upgrading. And those people that upgrade are obviously more likely to select the new phone. And so it's only been a few weeks, and I wouldn't want to make any grand statements about what things will happen in the longer term.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then one for Peter. Peter, I think your sequential gross margin guidance in terms of the sequential decline is actually more benign than you have guided for in each of the last two years, which is surprising to me because the component environment, I think, is tougher than it's been in either the last two years. Your back-to-school promotions in terms of geographic breadth are considerably larger and you have notebook price cuts which you didn't have in any of the previous fiscal Q4. So is the offset in terms of guiding to a lower gross margin sequential decline, is that all iPhone related, or are there other considerations relative to previous years that we ought to be thinking about?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Toni, it's always hard to talk about gross margin year-over-year, because you're typically in different product cycles and you have different component environments and currencies can be different and mixes and a variety of things. So it's hard. We are benefiting from a higher mix of iPhone revenues. And that is beneficial to our gross margin. So as I think about this year versus last, sure, that is a factor. But as we put our guidance together for the September quarter, we've gone through our normal process and we thought about supply. We thought about demand. And it resulted in the 34% that we've provided you.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then final question, you mentioned you lowered channel inventory on iPods about 400,000 units. Should we be thinking about the reduction in channel inventory being somewhat consistent as a percentage of what you anticipate for reduced iPhone sales in the following quarter or otherwise, why would you have taken it down by that amount?

TIM COOK: Toni, if you look at the over 400K that we reduced it by, there were two primary reasons. The first reason was that as you may remember in March we announced and launched a new Shuffle very close to the end of the quarter. And also the Easter holiday was at the beginning of the June quarter. And so to support both of these, we ended March with a bit more inventory. Although still within the target range of 4 to 6 weeks. With these events behind us, we were able to reduce channel inventory. And this accounted for about half of the over 400,000 unit reduction.

The second reason is the overall demand was lower. And we believe that this is due to the weak economy. Cannibalization from iPhone. And a reduction in the market size for traditional MP3 players. As you heard Peter's definition for this, we call traditional MP3 players, the Shuffle, the Nano and the Classic. And as a result of this, we adjusted channel inventories to correspond with the lower demand. And this accounted for the balance of the over 400,000 unit reduction.

TONI SACCONAGHI: But as a reminder, I don't want to overstate this, but we began and ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks. And so we're staying within the realm that we have forever set as a target.

TIM COOK: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks. Thank you, Toni. Can we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Mike Abramsky with RBC Capital Markets.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks very much. Tim, there are competitors that are unveiling application stores now and media and touch features via software. Can you just talk about maybe the dimensions along which you see continuing to out innovate competitor user experiences and maintain iPhone momentum and share leadership?

TIM COOK: Sure, Mike. I don't want to talk very much about what we have planned in the future. But if I just sort of summarize just what's happened in the last 90 days, we've just shipped the next major version of the world's most advanced mobile software platform with iPhone 3.0. And the App Store is now available in 77 countries. And reaches and installed base that is now more than 45 million. That's the sum of iPhone plus iPod Touch.

The App Store, I think, by any measure has been an unprecedented success with over 65,000 apps now in the store. And over 1.5 billion Apps downloaded. As you may remember, as you look at the App number, over 65,000 from the store, that compares to the latest numbers we have for RiM and Nokia that puts them at 1 and 2,000 each. And the latest published number we've seen on android puts it less than 5,000. And so we feel like we have a substantial lead on apps for the phone, on software for the phone and we think we have brought a great deal of hardware innovation for the phone as well. And so we feel extremely good about our competitive position and continue to believe that we're years ahead of other people.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. Thanks. And do you see additional distribution and pricing models important to sustain either your growth in market share gains in iPhone and do you think you can sustain growth based on the current strategies?

TIM COOK: Well, I think we just took a major change with the introduction of a $99 product. And so the reason we did that was obviously because we knew there was elasticity there. In regards to your other question, we are working very hard to continue expanding distribution both within countries that we're in where it makes sense to do so and to add new countries because the world has more than 80 countries in it. And so we're looking at both of those and we recognize there are some large markets left uncovered currently.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. Thanks. And then now, just lastly , does the positive response to the Mac price cuts provide you some pause regarding the opportunity that you might have for similar momentum for lower priced entry level PCs? In other words, do you still feel that the lower price PC category is perhaps not attractive versus your business model? I may not be exactly paraphrasing what you said the last time but

TIM COOK: Mike, I would say it differently really. And maybe I haven't expressed it well. Our goal is not the build the computers, it's to build the best. And whatever price point we can build the best at, we will play there. At this point, we don't see a way to build a great product for this $399, $499, this kind of price-point unit. And as I've said before, and I think this is playing out in several areas, I think some customers, maybe many customers, buying these become disappointed and disenchanted after they buy one of these. So we're going to continue to focus on what we've always done is making the best, the most innovative and giving people tremendous value. And I feel like the moves that we've made across this quarter really puts an exploration point on those when you look at being now able to buy a MacBook Pro for $800 less than someone could have done in October of last year. It's just jaw dropping.

And so we feel very good about our strategy and our pricing. And I think, frankly, the results bear it out. If you look at it now, now the Mac has outrun the market a staggering 18 of the last 19 quarters. And I think that really says that we do have the right approach.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Thank you very much, Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mike. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Andy Hargreaves with Pacific Crest.

ANDY HARGREAVES, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST: I'm just wondering on the iPhone. Do you feel like the services and apps are obviously growing really fast. Is that putting -- is it the growth there constrained, do you think, by the network capacity of your carrier partners?

TIM COOK: I think, Andy, it's Tim, I think that's a better question for them. But what I see without talking about specific ones, I see them making more investment in order to have faster networks and see them being very happy about driving higher ARPUs and lower churn. This changes their cost to customer acquisition if they're not outchurning people left and right. So I think they will continue to make investments to deliver services that people really enjoy, which is faster networks.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Do you think you guys will end up making investments on the side, whether it's a NOC or a data center or something to help take some of the pressure off them or off load some of that capacity?

TIM COOK: We have no plan to do so. When we entered this business, we looked at it and came to a conclusion that what we could do really well was deliver a world-class handset because of our hardware and software skills and that we could uniquely play in that world and deliver something that was revolutionary. I think there are other people that have much more skills than networks, and I think we're dealing with a lot of those as partners. And I think that's their business and they're quite good at it.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Andy. Can we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.

KATY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A couple of follow-ups, Tim, on the conversation around $399, $499 net book or whatever you want to call it. I understand that the ability of Apple to make something that is high quality at that price point is limited. But do you think that there is, perhaps, an emerging market for a truly mobile device that would have perhaps a larger screen where you can do more with it than on the iPhone that is big enough that you may want to participate at regardless of price?

TIM COOK: I never want to discount anything in the future and never want to specifically answer a question on new products. As you probably know, Katy, the point I'm making right now is that I think most customers that are buying a portable want a full-featured notebook. And we deliver those and deliver some incredible values in those, and we feel like -- and we know from our research the customers are very happy with those. I think some of the net books that are being delivered or many of those are very slow.

They have software technology that is old. They don't have a robust computing experience. They lack horse power. They have small displays and cramped keyboards. I could go on and on but I won't. And so that kind of thing, I think, many people will not be happy with. And we're only going to plan things where we can deliver something that is very innovative that we're very proud of.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Katy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Brian Marshall with Broadpoint AmTech.

BRIAN MARSHALL, ANALYST, BROADPOINT AMTECH: Hi. Thanks. A question with regards to iPhone activations. Based on my calculations, it seems as though the US has represented about 40% or so of the total activations over the last couple quarters. Shouldn't we be entering a point here where the international side should start to pick up here and start growing materially faster, and I just wondered if you could help us think about this.

TIM COOK: This is Tim again. We don't release the percentage of iPhone sales by geography. And so I wouldn't want to get into that. We view it as competitive information. Generally speaking, you would find that smart phones in general are being sold in larger numbers in environments where post pay is the primary payment mechanism. Not that phones are being sold and prepaid. There are some, but it's much lower.

And so you can look at and do an analysis of where those post pay countries are and find that there is a disproportionate number of phones relative to the total phone market being sold there. But that's not unique to Apple. I think that's the reality of the smart phone market currently.

BRIAN MARSHALL: And, Tim, having said that, some of your competitors are sort of tinkering around with some of the prepaid models out there. Is that something that you might be interested in down the road?

TIM COOK: We're doing that as well. And we sell by prepay in markets that are predominantly prepay. And I think we have more to learn in that environment. I think this is an environment where we're still a beginner in some ways. And I think we can make drastic improvements. I think our business model works quite well in the post pay category. But prepay is an opportunity for us. We are trying it in both markets where post pay is dominant of the two and we're trying it where prepay is the dominant. So we have multiple things going on right now and hopefully we'll learn from that and improve as we move forward.

BRIAN MARSHALL: Okay. Final question, any help you can give with regards to the percent of the iPod Touch user base which we calculated north of $20 million at this point, that actually upgraded to the new iPhone 3.0 software?

TIM COOK: I would call it a good number. And I don't want to be more specific. But obviously we priced that extremely aggressively and we are very much wanting to get the platform out there. It's great for our ecosystem and the developers will sell more apps as a part of that. So we tried very hard to get people to upgrade.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Brian. The next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Chris Whitmore at Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks very much. Do the supply constraints on the iPhone 3G-S affect the rollout for remaining countries or put it another way when do you expect it to reach equilibrium for the iPhone.

TIM COOK: Let me answer both questions. One, I don't want to predict today when supply and demand will balance. I know that it will not balance in the short-term. And I don't want to give a prediction because as you can guess, it's very difficult to gauge the demand without having the supply there to find out what it is. And so I don't want to do that. In terms of affecting the country roll out, I believe the vast majority of the countries that we were selling -- that we are selling the 3 G in will be selling a 3 GS by the end of the fiscal quarter. So it may move the date by a few weeks here or there, but I think the vast majority will be shipping in by the end of the fiscal quarter.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Tim, any update on the iPhone in China?

TIM COOK: Nothing to work -- nothing to add to date specifically other than it continues to be a priority project and we hope to be there within a year.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Chris. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Charles Wolf with Needham and Company.

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO: Hi, guys. I have a couple of questions. On sales of the iPhone , could you share with us any information you have regarding the division between new

TIM COOK: Charlie, it's Tim. I can't share that information. Some of that information is confidential to the carriers themselves because the customer signs up with the carrier.

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Well, let me ask a question about the App Store then. In terms of application prices , there appears to be a race to the bottom. I've noticed that there is an increasing number of $0.99 offerings. Do you regard this as a concern, and, if so, are you taking any steps to enable consumers to separate quality apps

TIM COOK: Charlie, we're always looking for ways to categorize apps differently. And we do have some ideas in this area. As you know today, we do it by type of app and also show popular apps and top selling apps, et cetera. We realize there is opportunity he there for further improvement and are working on that. In terms of the price, the developer sets the price. And so it's up to the developer what to charge. And I think what they're doing is they're doing what any good business person would do is doing the elasticity analysis and deciding where to best set their price. I would expect -- I would think as the install base grows more and more and more, it makes more and more sense to have a bit lower prices. And -- but that's totally up to the developers. And I'm sure each of them may view that in a little different manner. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. And thanks to everyone. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks at the podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on apple.com/investor, and via telephone.

And the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. The confirmation code is 2531481. And these replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570. And I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks, again, for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i34542 : Audio/Video Equipment | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
e1101 : Economic Growth | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | c151 : Earnings | e1113 : Inventories | mlpg : Liquid Petroleum Gas Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cknowm : Knowledge Management | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090804e57l0023l
  


 HD
 Q2  2009 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,499 words
   PD
22 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to the Apple Incorporated second quarter fiscal year 2009 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you, good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO Peter Oppenheimer joined by Apple's COO Tim Cook and Treasurer Gary Whistler for the Q&A session with analysts.

   TD
Please note some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings per share and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2008, the form 10-Q for the first fiscal quarter of 2009 and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Apple's CFO Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're extremely pleased to report the best nonholiday quarter revenue and earnings in our history. These results exceeded our expectations and we continue to be very pleased with our performance in this economy.

Revenue for the quarter was $8.16 billion, representing 9% growth over the prior March quarter's results. Operating margin percentage for the quarter was one of our highest ever at 20.4%, primarily due to higher than anticipated revenue and gross margin. Net income was $1.2 billion which translated to earnings per share of $1.33.

In terms of non-GAAP measures, adjusted sales totaled $9.06 billion for the March quarter, which was $900 million higher than our reported revenue. Adjusted gross margin was $3.62 billion, which was $650 million higher than our reported gross margin. And adjusted net income was $1.66 billion, $450 million higher than our reported net income. We continue to believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide added transparency to our business, and hope they're helpful to you in your analysis and understanding of our performance.

Turning to the details of our results, I would like to begin with our Mac products and services. For the March quarter, we sold 2.22 million Macs, compared to 2.29 million Macs in the year ago quarter, a 3% decline. In the year ago March quarter, Mac sales increased 51% year over year, due in part to the January 2008 launch of the MacBook Air, creating a very difficult compare. Our Mac shipments in this year's March quarter compares favorably to the 7% year over year contraction in the market overall, based on the latest estimate for the quarter published by IDC. We successfully transitioned the entire Mac desktop line in March, and continued to see strong year-over-year growth in MacBook shipments. Our overall unit sell through of Macs was flat year over year, and given the tough year over year comp and the challenging economic environment, we feel very positive about our Mac performance.

We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory. We experienced strong sales with the January release of iLife '09 and iWork '09. We believe the outstanding features of iLife and iWork are among the very compelling reasons why customers are drawn to the Mac experience.

Now, I would like to discuss our music products and services. We sold over 11 million iPods, representing a new March quarter unit record and 3% growth over the year ago quarter. We generated very strong year-over-year growth and sales of iPod Touch as customers continue to embrace the superior features of the platform, coupled with the rapidly growing array of applications available through the App Store. Customers and reviewers responded favorably to the March introduction of the all new iPod Shuffle, the world's smallest music player, featuring a great new industrial design, voice-over technology, and convenient new earphone cord controls.

We remain very pleased with iPod market share. Our share of the US market for MP3 players was over 70% based on the latest monthly data published by NPD, and we continued to gain share year over year in most International markets based on the latest data published by GFK. We saw healthy year over year iPod unit sales growth in a number of large markets including the UK, France, Germany, Japan, Australia and China. We began and ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory.

The iTunes store delivered another great quarter, fueled by strong sales of music, video and apps. We recently introduced a number of changes to the iTunes store, including the availability of DRM-free iTunes Plus titles from all four major labels, as well as thousands of independent artists.

The App Store continues to be an unparalleled success with developers and customers, and now offers over 35,000 applications, compared to the 15,000 available as of our last conference call. We're within hours of reaching our 1 billionth download, an astounding number given the number of short nine month history of the App Store. We believe the App Store is a key strategic differentiator of the iPhone and iPod Touch experience and is more evidence of what we have always said: that software is a key ingredient for great mobile experience. We continue to believe that we're years ahead of the competition, and we're very excited about the prospect of even more compelling apps as developers take advantage of the many new features that will be enabled by the iPhone OS 3.0 this summer.

Turning to the iPhone, we were extremely pleased to have sold almost 3.8 million handsets in the March quarter, 123% increase over the 1.7 million handsets sold in the year ago quarter. We continue to expand iPhone's geographic reach during the quarter, and are now selling it in 81 countries. Revenue recognized from iPhone handset sales, accessory sales, and carrier payments was $1.52 billion, compared to $378 million in the year ago quarter, an increase of over 300%. The sales value of iPhones sold during the quarter was over $2.2 billion.

On March 17th, we provided developers with a preview of iPhone OS 3.0 and began the developer seeding process. The iPhone OS 3.0 release will include an updated software development kit with over 1,000 new developer APIs, enabling in app purchases, peer to peer connections, app control of accessories and push notifications. The iPhone OS 3.0 release will also add over 100 customer features, including cut, copy and paste, spotlight search, landscape keyboard and view for all key iPhone apps and MMS support. Developers have responded very enthusiastically to the new SDK, and we expect that customers will love the many new features of iPhone OS 3.0 and the new apps that will be available.

Because we announced these specific new features and plan to provide iPhone customers to them as a free upgrade, we have delayed the start of revenue recognition for all iPhones sold on or after March 17th announcement date, until the iPhone OS 3.0 Software is released this summer. The revenue and cost of sales associated with these iPhones will be recognized ratably over the remaining terms of their respective 24 month estimated lives. Revenue recognition for handsets sold prior to March 17th is not affected by the announcement.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. The stores recognized $1.47 billion of revenue during the March quarter compared to $1.45 billion in the year ago quarter. Our stores sold 438,000 Macs, about half of which were to customers who have never owned a Mac before. We opened one new store during the quarter, bringing us to 252 stores. With an average of 251 stores open during the quarter, average revenue per store was $5.9 million, compared to $7.1 million in the year ago quarter.

Retail segment margin was $308 million, compared to $334 million in the year ago quarter. We believe that the year-over-year decline in average store sales and segment margin is a reflection of the continued weak consumer spending environment, coupled with third party channel expansion relative to the year ago quarter. We hosted 39.1 million visitors in our stores compared to 33.7 million visitors in the year ago quarter, An increase of 16%. We also hosted a record 644,000 personal training sessions during the quarter, an increase of 11% year over year. We remain on track to open a total of about 25 stores during fiscal 2009, about half of which we expect to be outside the U.S.

Total Company gross margin was 36.4%, which was 390 base points better than our guidance. This difference was primarily driven by three factors: first, commodity and other hardware component costs were significantly lower than we planned. We have been very disciplined with our inventory management, which allowed us to take advantage of the continued favorable commodity market during the quarter. Second, sales of higher margin products, including software and accessories were better than planned. Third, we benefited from lower freight and warranty costs.

Operating expenses were $1.3 billion including $152 million in stock based compensation expense. OpEx was $26 million below our guidance as we spent less in many areas of the Company. OI&E was $63 million and the tax rate for the quarter was 30.3%. Turning to cash, our cash plus short term and long-term marketable securities totaled $28.9 billion at the end of the March quarter, compared to $28.1 billion at the end of the December quarter. Cash flow from operations in the March quarter was $841 million. Our investment priority for the cash continues to be preservation of capital which has served us well in the current environment. We're continuing to focus on short dated, high quality investments and remain comfortable with our investment portfolio.

Looking ahead to the June quarter, I would like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We'll continue our practice of providing guidance based on GAAP, and will report our June quarter non-GAAP financial measures to you in July, when we release our results. Forecasting the current macroeconomic environment remains challenging, so we will continue to provide a range of guidance for the June quarter. We expect revenue to be between $7.7 billion and $7.9 billion. This reflects not starting revenue recognition for iPhones sold on or after March 17th until the date of the iPhone OS 3.0 Software is released. We expect gross margin to be about 33%, reflecting approximately $30 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect Op Ex to be about $1.35 billion, including $150 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $55 million, reflective of the short term interest rate environment, and we expect the tax rate to be about 31%. We're targeting EPS in the range of $0.95 cents to $1.

In closing, we're very pleased with our record March quarter results, and how well Apple is performing in this economy. We're extremely enthusiastic about the launch of the iPhone OS 3.0 and can't wait to get it into customer's hands this summer. We're also very excited about the other products in our pipeline. We remain confident in our strategy, and are working hard to deliver the world's most innovative and extraordinary products.

With that, I would like to open the call to questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your first question will come from Richard Gardner with Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. Well, great job on the quarter, and in the absence of too much else to pick on, I guess I'll ask the standard component question of Tim, what is your outlook in terms of pricing and component supply going into the June quarter, please?

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Hi, Rich. Last quarter, we believe that most of the excess inventory in the supply chain was consumed, and so where we see the component environment still being favorable, on an overall basis, there will be some commodities like NAND as an example which will increase sequentially. NAND in particular has recently increased due to reduced wafer starts from several of the suppliers attempting to address the profitability issues. Other than that, I think last quarter was about wringing out excess inventory, environment we continue to be favorable. But I don't expect to see the level of reductions that we experienced in calendar quarter one.

RICHARD GARDNER: But you do expect, Tim, the aggregate building materials to be down sequentially in the June quarter?

TIM COOK: I expect it to be within a similar range as last quarter.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. All right. Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, thanks. Peter, for you, cash flow was actually down year over year. It is the first time going back for some period of time that I've seen cash flow from operations be down on the year over year for the March quarter. Could you talk a little bit about what was driving that and specifically, was there anything on the deferred revenue recognition, sorry, the deferred balance, that changed consistent with the revenue recognition policies or the look thereof when you went to the new Software platform?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Keith, no there's nothing with iPhone or deferred revenue or cost from a policy change that played into that. I was actually very pleased with the cash generation in the quarter. It was up over $700 million from the end of the December quarter. There are three things to discuss with you that did play into the cash generation in the quarter. First, as we talked about on the last quarter's call, we did make our prepayment to LGD for $500 million. Second, you'll notice our accounts payable was down from the December to March quarter by over $700 million.

KEITH BACHMAN: Right.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Climb in AP as we leave the holiday quarter and conclude the March quarter, it is very typical for us. There's nothing new there, but that does play into the sequential results. The third component to discuss with you is our tax payments. We made about $1.3 billion in tax payments in the March quarter. And there are a couple of things that were driving that. First of all, for the current fiscal year, so, this year, fiscal '09, we make our first estimated tax payments in the March quarter for the current fiscal year, and in fact, there are two that are due in the quarter.

This year, the tax payments were higher than what we saw last year, because A, we're making more money and B, given the equity markets, the credits that the Company gets from employee option and RSU gains are down. So, we paid more tax for that and also we prepaid some potential audit settlements that were accrued on the balance sheet. We paid them on a cash basis this quarter for prior years and we trued up for fiscal '08 this quarter as well. So, all three of those things combined for $1.3 billion in tax payments this quarter and that was up significantly year over year.

KEITH BACHMAN: Ok, thank you, Peter.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: That will come from Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good afternoon. Thank you. Could you talk a little bit about the Mac business. It seems the desktop side exceeded our expectations, obviously due to the launch. But sequentially, the ASP in desktops if my math is right looks like it was down quite a bit. Could you talk about what's going on in the Mac business, how the new Macs are doing. What you think of your pipeline but also what's going on with ASPs like am I right there was a mix down in the desktop area and just what's going on in particular with regard to the mix with this tough economy and maybe notebooks and desktops.

TIM COOK: Okay. Hi, Ben, it's Tim.

BEN REITZES: Hey, Tim.

TIM COOK: Across the quarter, as we got into March and announced a new desktop line, we saw an acceleration of sales. It was that acceleration that allowed us on a sell-through basis to approximately be equal to the year before. After we did the desktop launch, we began to ship a higher mix of desktops than we were before the transition, and that helped push the overall ASP down. Within the desktops themselves, the top end of the line, Mac Pro, we had a lower mix to the Mac Pro, a higher mix to the Mac mini than we had before the transition and really all throughout the quarter, the pro products that are primarily being sold to the creative professionals were weaker than they were in the year ago quarter. And we believe that that's mainly economic, related as you would guess businesses are cutting back on technology expenditures.

In addition, education in the US contracted by about 11% year over year, and this is a result of states not having tax revenues as projected, and we're hoping that as we get into this quarter, that the stimulus funds that were approved last quarter begin to flow to the states and we see some benefit from that. But that remains to be seen. So, net net, yes. ASPs did decline. It was, desktops were a piece of it. But doing all of the desktops in a single day, which was -- it is unprecedented for us to do that, really helped us drive more sales in March and get the Mac business to a much better level by the end of quarter.

In the notebook business, we did have an ASP decline sequentially. That was mainly driven by a higher mix to the $999 MacBook that we had announced part way through the quarter in the October, late October time frame. I think that's actually a good thing, not a bad thing, because I think what you see is for us anyway, the consumer is holding up much better than the professional, and much better than education. Education is gated by tax receipts and funding and the professional is really cutting backs expenses and delaying -- I don't think it is business we're losing necessarily but delaying purchases.

BEN REITZES: It is no secret that, you know, that the netbook is obviously doing pretty well. Do you have any thoughts there on that category now that you've been able to watch it for a few quarters and what you're thinking and it has obviously held up the market a bit in the recent data. And you don't have it and you still outperform the market. Just any thoughts on where you are and where you aren't that you might want to share?

TIM COOK: Well, you know, for us, it is about doing great products. And when I look at what is being sold in the netbook space today, I see cramped keyboards, terrible software, junky hardware. Very small screens. And just not a consumer experience, and not something that we would put the Mac brand on, quite frankly. And so, it is not a space as it exists today, that we're interested in. Nor do we believe that customers in the long-term would be interested in. It is a segment we would choose not to play in.

That said, we do look at the space and are interested to see how customers respond to it. People that want a small computer, so to speak, that does browsing and e-mail might want to buy an iPod Touch or they might want to buy an iPhone. So, we have other products to accomplish some of what people are buying netbooks for. So, in that particular way, we play on an indirect basis. Then, of course, if we find a way where we can deliver an innovative product that really makes a contribution, then we'll do that. We have some interesting ideas in the space.

The product pipeline is fantastic for the Mac. As we look back over the last four plus years, 17 of the 18 quarters of the last four and a half years, we've exceeded the market rate of growth and to exceed it in this horrendous economy, I think is quite an accomplishment, especially when you look at these very low-priced net books that are -- I think it is a stretch to call it a personal computer. Are really propping up the unit numbers from the industry as a whole. So, we feel great about our performance. It is a very solid performance, especially into this environment. And the pipeline looks fantastic.

BEN REITZES: All right. Great. Well, I'll be there in June and look forward to hearing from you. Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: That will come from Bill Fearnley with FTN Equity Capital.

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN EQUITY CAPITAL: Can I ask a question on the App Store? Is there any additional color you can give directionally on the mix between paid and free downloads on the App Store overall, any additional color between the iPhone and the iPod Touch and then I had a quick follow-up, if I could.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, I'm sorry. We don't disclose the free versus the paid. But we're just hours away from our billionth download and couldn't be happier with the store's results.

TIM COOK: Bill, this is Tim. I would add to that, a couple of things. One, one of the keys behind the growth of the iPod this quarter, despite the economic environment was that the iPod Touch more than doubled year over year. So, it was a tremendous result, and as Peter mentioned earlier in his remarks, the sum of iPhone plus iPod Touch is now about 37 million units and so it provides an enormous platform for developers to develop on and would be -- with our recent SDK changes, the developers are working on now, I think it just unleashes a whole new level of innovation that keeps Apple years ahead of everyone else.

BILL FEARNLEY: Ok. That's helpful. Thanks. Then, could you guys provide the direct/indirect sales mix for the quarter and did it is are an effect on the gross margin for the quarters and does it have any bearing on your guidance for the third quarter? Thanks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, the direct percent in the March quarter was 48%. It really didn't have a bearing on gross margin. It was reasonably close to what we thought. As we enter the June quarter, the education buying season begins. That is -- one of the reasons why I expect gross margin to be down sequentially. Along with the impact of the US dollar and the commodity and component environment.

BILL FEARNLEY: Thanks, guys. Congrats on a good quarter.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: From Credit Suisse, we'll hear from Bill Shope.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, guys. Given your gross margin performance over the past several quarters as well as the guidance, how should we think about the long-term 30% gross margin target you've mentioned in the past? It seems that, just looking at the product mix, particularly on a GAAP basis, it is mathematically very difficult to get there without some fairly drastic changes to the business model. How do you guys think about that longer term?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I've given you our guidance for the June quarter at about 33. For the September quarter, I think our gross margins would be about 30. We -- I'm not going to make comments on fiscal 2010. I think the important part is as you look forward is just to understand that we're very, very focused on delivering extraordinary products to our customers, and we're going to provide them ever-increasing value and we just don't want you to count on the gross margins that you've recently seen, which have benefited from just a tremendous commodity and component environment.

BILL SHOPE: Ok. And then you sort of mentioned this when you talked about consumer versus professional education, but would you say that you're seeing signs of stabilization in the consumer market that some of the other tech companies have cited in recent weeks, and with that in mind, can you comment on the linearity of the quarter and what you sort of saw on a trend line basis as you progressed through the quarter?

TIM COOK: Yes, Bill, this is Tim. We're not economists. We're not entering the game of predicting bottoms and that sort of thing. We'll report our results and give a view of the next quarter. But if you look at the different product areas which is the way we think about it, if you looked at the iPod linearity through the quarter and you overlaid last year, you would see very little difference in the two curves. We were up 3% year over year and so very, very similar. Not much to mention, except for the point I made earlier that from a mixed point of view, the iPod Touch is a run away hit. And it is clearly being driven by the App Store we talked about earlier.

On the Mac side, as I mentioned earlier, our units sell through accelerated in March, after we turned every desktop in the Company on the same day. And so March was a very important month for the Mac business. When you look at iPhone, the iPhone linearity through the quarter, it was reasonably linear business after the first week or two with very little up and down in the aggregate. Obviously it is a new business for us. It is the first March quarter that we've had rolled out to a significant number of countries. So, we were exceptionally pleased to see that. Instead of the normal seasonality curve that one would associate with most consumer electronics.

BILL SHOPE: Ok. Very helpful. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: That will come from Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon, congratulations. I've got a question on the iPhone. Our survey work suggests the exclusive relationship with AT&T is the number one reason why people don't purchase an iPhone. Given the revenue shares no longer exist, can you walk us through your thinking in terms of why remain exclusive through AT&T and any update on Steve Jobs. Thanks.

TIM COOK: On AT&T, Gene, we view AT&T as a very good partner. We believe that they're the best wireless provider in the US, and we're very happy to be doing business with them. They have done a very good job with iPhone. They put the full force and weight of their company behind it. It is a major strategic thrust for them. So, we're very happy with the relationship that we have and do not have a plan to change it.

GENE MUNSTER: Is there a structural reason why you need to maintain with AT&T from a technology perspective?

TIM COOK: From a technology point of view, as you know, Verizon is on CDMA and we chose from the beginning of the iPhone to focus on one phone for the whole of the world. And when you do that, you really go down the GSM route. Because CDMA is -- doesn't really have a life to it after a point in time.

GENE MUNSTER: Ok. And then I guess one more before the Steve Jobs question is any color on kind of the holdup as far as getting China up and rolling on the iPhone?

TIM COOK: Let me just comment on BRIC in general. We now have the four BRIC countries, Brazil, Russia, India and China, we have three of those up and we have 8,000 storefronts in those three selling the iPhone. We feel very good about that. We're putting a lot of energy in growing those. China, we're not in yet. We would like to be in China within the next year, and are clearly working on that. But I've got nothing specific to announce today on it.

GENE MUNSTER: And on Steve Jobs?

TIM COOK: I'll let Peter make a comment there.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, what is your question.

GENE MUNSTER: Any update regarding Steve Jobs and his return.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We look forward to Steve returning to Apple at the end of June.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. I wanted to revisit the Mac question. Your Mac business was down 8% in the Americas, I presume that the US was potentially worse than that. According to Gartner, the US market was flat this quarter.

So, you actually did lose material share in -- I think, as you noted, despite the fact that you had a new desktop line-up that created a surge in your run rate at the end of the quarter. So, I guess given that statement, one, do you care about your market share in the US, and second, given the movement in ASPs that you saw toward the lower end and given your share performance in the US, does that shape or change your thinking about Mac pricing in any way?

TIM COOK: Toni, it is Tim. On a worldwide basis, just to make sure we're in sync with the numbers, IDC projected that the market contracted by 7% worldwide. On a reported basis, we contracted by 3 but as Peter said in his opening comments on a sell-through basis, we were essentially flat year over year. In the US, the US was our weakest, largest geography in terms of comparison year over year. But I would remind you that in our U.S. business, a larger percentage of that business is education-oriented and therefore, subject to the budget constraints that have been significant in many, many of the states, actually almost all of the states. And so, I think that's one reason why the US is disproportionately affected.

And the second is we saw less pro Macintoshes being bought in the US on a relative basis to other geographies. We would attribute that also to the economy. There was some mix down there across the world but much more so in the US where I think the professional markets have been hit much harder. And so do I care about US share? Of course I do. However, I think cycles come and cycles go.

And what we're about is making the best computers in the world, not making the most, and not getting to a point where we're building products that we're not proud of. And so that first and foremost is our objective. We believe that if we do that over the long-term, that we will gain share. I'm not going to worry about the ebb and flow of each 90 days because I think that leads you to make a lot of short-term decisions that are not good for the Company or for the brand over time.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Tim, could you also comment on your thinking about expanding iPhone adoption, recently when you have said that one area where you're spending a lot of time is thinking about how to increase adoption of the iPhone and you've been thinking a lot about elasticity, one comment that it struck me was that you were surprised by -- from your research at the elasticity that you thought was associated with the price of the device. Can you update me on your thinking or what you've learned about iPhone elasticity now a quarter later?

TIM COOK: Well, we had a very good quarter in the March quarter. With actually a very small, sequential decline from the holiday quarter which was far above where our expectations were. So, we're really pleased with how we did. We also announced 3.0 or previewed it to developers, so that they could begin to change their Apps and produce more Apps for the phone which we believe increases the ecosystem and increases the number of people that want and will buy phones, even more. So, we're coming from a product side, we're very focused on the App Store and we're also focused on geographic roll-outs. We spent time this quarter on the middle east and Asia and rolled out Saudi Arabia, UAE, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand to name a few. We're obviously focused on more in the future. And so, between the product plans that we've got and the App Store and the software that you've seen and then things I can't talk about, we have a plan that we believe continues to make us the leader in the space, continues to keep us years ahead of others. One of the things that we will make sure is that we don't leave a price umbrella for people.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then finally, I guess one for Peter. Quickly, in response to one of the other questions, you talked about considerations for margins in terms of forces at work. To the degree that you can -- can you help give us a bridge in terms of your thinking whether it is qualitatively or quantitatively about how we think about 36.4% gross margins this quarter to 33% next quarter. Can you rank order the forces, can you explain and then rank order the forces in terms of their impact on that expected deceleration?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes. Toni, I will say the larger two of the three are the stronger US dollar and seasonally lower mix driven largely by the beginning of the education buying season. Let me talk about each of those. Regarding the dollar, the dollar is a little bit stronger today than where it was throughout most of the March quarter. But the bigger impact for us on a sequential basis regarding the dollar is our hedges.

In the December and March quarter, we had hedges in place that were put in place at the time that the dollar was not as strong. And hedges that we have in place for the June quarter largely were put in place during March at stronger dollar levels. And that's really what is really the driving factor behind the sequential impact of the dollar. And of course, the net buying season begins in the June quarter and June tends to be more dominated by K-12 than High Ed. The September quarter historically is stronger for High Ed than for K-12. And K-12 being more of an institutional sale, we expect to be competitive this year especially given the funding situation that Tim described.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: That comes from David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you very much. I was wondering if you have any information on the percentage of customers that upgraded their iTunes music library now that you've launched the DRM free feature and if you can give us an idea of what the revenue from that might have been.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: David, it has just been a couple of weeks so I think it is sort of too soon to tell and I don't have anything sort of specific on that. The March quarter was very strong for us on the iTunes store. We saw very, very strong growth in music, video and of course, applications.

DAVID BAILEY: And then did you say for the September quarter, the margin -- gross margin might go down to about 30%. I wondered what the reasons you thought they might drop off might be.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm not giving guidance for the September quarter at this point. But in answer to Bill's question, I've said about 30 for the September quarter. We'll give you more of our thoughts in July on the September quarter.

DAVID BAILEY: Ok. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: That comes from Scott Craig with Banc of America.

SCOTT CRAIG, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Thanks, good afternoon. Just with regards to cash flow, Peter, is it there anything in the June quarter that you guys would consider sort of one time items that could impact like we saw this quarter and then I have a follow-up.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Let me just kind of quickly go back through what occurred this quarter. So, from the March to the June quarter, would not expect the holiday phenomena we see each year of going from the holiday quarter to the March quarter. And necessarily the impact on accounts payable. I don't have any prepaids to announce that we're going to make in the June quarter. So, we did make a $500 million prepayment in March. And then related to the tax payments, we will make an estimated payment for fiscal '09 in the June quarter. We'll make one in the September quarter as well. But I don't expect to have any of the prior year audit true ups or to make anymore payments on fiscal '08. I don't expect the tax payments to have the significance in the June quarter that they did in the March quarter.

SCOTT CRAIG: Ok. And then just a follow-up on the iPhone for Tim, perhaps. You guys started with Walmart, I think toward the end of December last quarter. Your sales came in probably higher than most people thought. How much of an impact was Walmart there and what was the channel inventory in the iPhone as you exited the quarter? That's it for me. Thanks.

TIM COOK: In terms of Walmart, as you probably know, they're a very key partner for us relative to iPod and we did expand through them for iPhone coverage and we believe they do provide us extended reach in areas that we weren't hitting before. And we're pleased with the results there thus far. But it is in the early going and so there is -- there's not much to report there yet. In terms of total distribution across the world, we're selling iPhone now in over 50,000 storefronts in the 81 countries. So, we have a sizable presence and sizable channels in this space. In terms of channel inventory, if you remember, last time, last quarter I told you or implied that we had about 1.75 million units in inventory. And to remind you in case you guys have forgotten, we are very conservative as to how we count inventory. For an for example, we count demos that aren't sellable in inventory. We have about 100,000 of those across these 50,000 locations.

We count units that are in transit from our factories to the carriers that are not physically available for sale and at the end of a quarter, or at the end of last quarter in particular, that was around 100,000 units. So, just to put some context and perspective on that, we also, in many cases, count inventory all the way to the storefront. I think there are many people in the industry that count units that sell through and cease to count channel inventory beyond the distribution center. That's not the way we look at it. We like to be very disciplined in this environment. So, on your specific question, I'm not going to talk about weeks because we don't have the experience headed into this quarter about the seasonality, given this will be our first June quarter with a sort of a worldwide spread. But we saw the channel inventory in the countries that we were in at the beginning of the December quarter fall by the end of the quarter. But with the countries that we added, which I mentioned before, we added a net of around 80,000 units. So, we ended at 1.83 million units. And again, that includes all of those categories that I had mentioned earlier. Net net, we're very comfortable with the inventory, and we have people wanting more of it.

SCOTT CRAIG: Ok. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Charles Wolf with Needham.

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO: Yes. In view of the explosion in the number of applications, for the iPhone and the iTouch, I was wondering what steps Apple is taking to ensure that the iPhone Apps can be discovered and are these any different from music discovery on the iTunes store.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Charlie, we're doing a number of things. We include easy to find top 50 and 100 Apps, both paid for and free. We've got them associated in various genres as well and we're expanding those. And so I think the team has done a fantastic job making Apps easy to discover and fun to discover.

CHARLES WOLF: Are there any kind of unusual patterns in application sales by title versus music sales by title?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Charlie, I would have to say that hitting a billion downloads in about nine months is very exciting. I think customers are having a lot of fun. I think all of the genres are pretty popular but of course, you know, games and you can see this by the top Apps list. Are quite popular. I think that's one of the reasons why the iPod Touch, as an example, has been such a success.

CHARLES WOLF: Okay, thanks a lot.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: From Cross Research, you'll hear from Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Tim, can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of the competitive landscape for smart phones, especially as we move closer to the launch of the Palm Pre, and as well the iPhone 3.0. Then I had a follow-up.

TIM COOK: It is difficult to comment on products that aren't shipping. So, there's nothing intelligent I could say on the Pre. The iPhone has has now sold over 21 million and has the highest overall customer satisfaction of any product shipping. And so we think that we're in a great position and with the combination of the App Store and the billionth download that should occur tomorrow, we think that we're years ahead. We very much look at this business or see it through a Software platform lens and I think that has benefited us and our customers very well. The breadth of Apps on the store are mind boggling from games to very serious medical kind of applications and so the power of the device and the ecosystem is enormous and I think we're just scratching the surface now on its opportunity.

SHANNON CROSS: Ok, great. Then Peter, we saw your comments on the tape earlier about use of cash but I figured I would ask the question anyway. Any thoughts on the cash balance, obviously it was not up as much this quarter. But it sounds like given some of the uses of cash. But obviously going forward, there is substantial cash generation. So, any thoughts there?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me begin by saying for all of the right reasons, we're making -- we're working hard to try to be sure that your prediction of increased cash does occur. But no, nothing new to announce to you today. And we continue to be careful with how we're investing the cash and we're very focused on principal preservation.

SHANNON CROSS: What's the timing on the construction of the new headquarters? Any update there?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. No update. Things are quite busy here and we will begin to focus on that in the future. But no updates today.

SHANNON CROSS: Ok. Thank you.

TIM COOK: We're spending all of our energy on constructing new products.

SHANNON CROSS: That's a good choice.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you very much. Your gross margin guidance seems to imply you expect a reasonably strong education selling season. At least in terms of mix. Was that in consideration and combined with the desktop refresh? Can you help us understand why you expect about a 4.5% sequential revenue decline into the June quarter at its midpoint?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. As we were putting our guidance for the June quarter together, a couple of things. First of all, last year, in a much better economy, our Q3 revenue was down 1% sequentially. This year, our guidance provides for a couple of more points of sequential decline. However, I think it is important to point out that we are guiding for year over year growth on a GAAP basis and we would expect our adjusted sales growth to be even higher. But, as we think about this year, first, the economy and its continuing impact on consumers and business and education buying season, which begins this quarter, I discussed earlier that the June quarter is more dominated by K-12. That's an institution sale. We expect things to be competitive this year given the economy and the funding situations. We expect some reductions in ASP sequentially as we usually experience in the June quarter.

Second, we will not begin recording revenue on new iPhones sold since our March 17th event. And we'll start that when we release the iPhone OS 3.0 Software this summer. And finally, I talked a bit about some of the gross margin discussion, the currency environment and we expect the dollar to have an impact not only on gross margin but, of course, on our revenue as well. Largely related to, where we got the quarter hedged and the current spot rates.

CHRIS WHITMORE: What impact do you expect software to have on mix in the June quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We don't give specific product guidance. But in the March quarter, iLife and iWork sales exceeded our expectations. One of the reasons why revenue and gross margin was higher than we expected.

CHRIS WHITMORE: Ok. Final question for me is around protecting your IP. Last quarter, you talked about rigorously impacting your intellectual property. We haven't seen any action in the past 90 days. Does that say something about either number one, your position, your patent position or number two, does a product actually need to ship before you can take action on the IP side? Thanks.

TIM COOK: We think that Apple's innovation in the iPhone as I've said before is leading the industry by years. And we think competition is great. We think it makes all of us better. As long as other companies invent their own stuff.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Chris. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as an Podcast on the iTunes store, as a web cast on Apple.com/investor, and by telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820. And the confirmation code is 6117348. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896 and financial analysts can contact either Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks, again, for joining us.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090506e54m002s7
  


 HD
 Q1  2009 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,156 words
   PD
21 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to this Apple, Inc. Apple first quarter fiscal year 2009 earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director, Investor Relations, and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR IR, CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE INC.: Thank you and good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by Apple COO, Tim Cook, and Treasurer, Gary Whipfler for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes and earnings per share. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2008 and the Form 8-K filed today and the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking our forecast. statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, VP FINANCE, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're extremely pleased to report record results for the December quarter that include surpassing $10 billion for the first time in Apple's history, setting a new record for iPod sales, and generating an all time high quarterly earnings. We entered the holiday season with our best product lineup ever, and our customers responded.

Revenue for the quarter was $10.17 billion, representing 6% growth over the prior December quarter's results, and exceeding the high end of our guidance range. Operating margin for the quarter was better than expected at 20.9%, due to higher than anticipated gross margin, and strong operating expense management. Net income was $1.6 billion, which translated to earnings per share of $1.78. As we discussed on last quarter's conference call, we supplement our analysis of the business internally by using non-GAAP financial measures that correspond to the total sales and products of iPhones and AppleTVs sold during the quarter.

Our earnings press release provides a full description of these non-GAAP measures, including how we use them, how they're derived, and their limitations. In terms of the non-GAAP measures, adjusted sales totaled $11.8 billion for the December quarter, which was $1.6 billion higher than our reported revenue. Adjusted gross margin was $4.5 billion, which was $1 billion higher than our reported gross margin. And adjusted net income was $2.3 billion, which was $700 million higher than reported net income. We continue to believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide added transparency to our business, and hope they are helpful to you in your analysis and understanding of our performance during the December quarter.

Now turning to the details of our results. I'd like to begin with Mac products and services. For December quarter, we sold 2.5 million Macs, representing 9% growth over the prior December quarter's results. We are extremely proud of this very solid growth, particularly in contrast to the performance of the rest of the market. In the latest update published last week, IDC estimated that the overall market for personal computers contracted during the December quarter. Customer response to the new MacBook and MacBook Pro, introduced in October, was very strong, driving year-over-year portables growth of 34%, and an overall portable mix of 71%, the highest ever for Apple. Desktop unit sales declined by 25% year-over-year.

It's important to remember that in the prior December quarter, desktop sales grew by a phenomenal 53% year-over-year, given the very successful launch of the new iMac in August 2007. In addition to this tough comparison, we believe the year-over-year decline in desktop sales is a reflection of the shift towards portables in the overall market in customer response to our October announcements. IDC's latest published estimate indicates a 16% contraction in global desktop shipments during the December quarter. We are very pleased with overall Mac share gains, and believe our outstanding new features in iLife '09 and iWork '09 introduced earlier this month, will distance the Mac experience even farther from the competition. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Now I'd like to discuss our music products and services. We sold over 22.7 million iPods, a new quarterly record, representing 3% growth over the previous record sales in the year ago quarter. We were thrilled with customer response to the new iPods introduced in September. Customers love the sleek design and selection of the new Nano, while the superior features of the iPod touch, coupled with the amazing breadth and popularity of content on the App store have helped establish the iPod Touch as an outstanding gaming, entertainment, communications, and information platform. We remain very pleased with iPod market share. Our share of the US market for MP3 players was over 70% in the month of December, based on the latest data published by NPD. And we continue to gain share year-over-year in international markets based on the latest data published by GFK. For the latest period reported, iPod's share of the MP3 market was over 70% in the UK and Australia, over 60% in Japan, and over 50% in Canada. We were also pleased with continued year-over-year share gains in France, Germany, Italy, and Spain. We ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory or a look forward basis.

The iTunes store had a record quarter, thanks to strong music and video sales and the continued tremendous success of the App store. We experienced our biggest music quarter ever, including our highest sales ever for both Christmas Day and Christmas week. We are continuing to change the value proposition for mobile devices with the App store and developer and customer excitement has been incredible. We now offer over 15,000 applications, an increase of over 10,000 since our last quarterly conference call, with many more Apps being added each day. We are also thrilled that customer downloads since the July 11th launch have surpassed 500 million.

Turning to the iPhone, we sold 4.4 million handsets in the December quarter, which brings our cumulative calendar 2008 iPhone sales to 13.7 million, well ahead of the 10 million unit goal for the year that we set when we introduced the iPhone. We continued to expand iPhone's geographic reach and were selling in over 70 countries by the end of the quarter. Recognized revenue from iPhone handset sales, accessory sales, and carrier payments was $1.25 billion compared to $241 million in year ago quarter. The sales value of iPhones sold during the quarter was over $2.6 billion. We're very proud of how rapidly iPhone has achieved such remarkably strong traction in the market. Based on its 2008 business wireless smart phone customer satisfaction study, J.D. Powers and associates ranks the iPhone in overall customer satisfaction among business wireless smart phone users. And according to Ad Mobs, the December 2008 mobile metrics report, iPhone accounted for 32% of worldwide smart phone ad requests, and 48% of US smart phone ad requests in the month of December. More than RIM, Windows, and Palm combined.

It's clear that customers are now attracted to iPhone not only for its amazing functionality and revolutionary multi-touch user interface, but also for its unique ability to let users easily purchase, download, and use thousands of different applications, ranging from games to social networking, to financial planning, and health management. And our competitors are scrambling to try and copy our success. The incredible success of the App store is more evidence of what we have always said, that software is the key ingredient for a great mobile experience and we continue to believe that we are years ahead of the competition.

I'd now like to turn to the Apple retail stores, which hosted a record 46.7 million visitors during the December quarter, or [14,400] visitors per store per week. Revenue of $1.74 billion also established a new record, and grew 2% year-over-year. Our stores sold 515,000 Macs during the quarter, almost half of which were to customers who have never owned a Mac before. Average revenue per store was $7 million, compared to $8.5 million in the prior year, and the retail segment margin was $353 million compared to $405 million in the year ago quarter. This reflects the very difficult retail environment in the US, where most of our stores are located. In addition, we have expanded Mac distribution with Best Buy over the past year, and third party channels discounted and bundled aggressively this holiday season, particularly with iPods that drive traffic to their stores.

Given the retail conditions around us, our stores performed very well in the December quarter. We ended the quarter with 251 stores, and we now operate retail stores in 10 countries. During the quarter, we opened our first store in Germany in Munich, and it's off to a great start. Our stores achieved the highest ever service volumes as customers came in record numbers for help at our Genius Bars, and for personal training sessions. Total company gross margin was 34.7%, which was about 420 basis points better than our guidance. About half of this difference was due to a more favorable component pricing environment than we had anticipated at the beginning of the quarter. The remainder was split fairly evenly between two areas. First, lower than expected transportation, warranty, support, and other costs, and second, favorable adjustments and settlements, primarily related to prior quarter supply-chain matters.

Operating expenses were $1.4 billion, including $142 million in stock-based compensation expense. Total OpEx was below the low end of our guidance range, as a result of lower spending in most areas of the company, particularly in sales, retail and marketing. OI&E was $158 million, the tax rate from the quarter was 29.7%, slightly below our guidance as a result of a one time benefit from congressional approval of the R&D tax credit, which was applied retroactively to January of 2008.

Turning to our cash, our cash plus short term and long term marketable securities totaled $28.1 billion at the end of the December quarter, compared to $24.5 billion at the end of the September quarter, an increase of over $3.6 billion. During the December quarter, we changed our accounting practice for certain fixed income investments to more closely reflect the timing of when those marketable securities will mature. This change resulted in the reclassification of all investments maturing more than one year in the future from short term marketable securities to long term marketable securities. We have reclassified prior balances to reflect this presentation as well. Our investment priority for the cash continues to be preservation of capital, which has served us well in the current environment. We are continuing to focus on short-dated high quality investments, and are comfortable with our investment portfolio. Cash flow from operations in the December quarter was over $3.9 billion.

Looking ahead to the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We will continue our practice of providing guidance based on GAAP, and will report our March quarter non-GAAP financial measures to you in April, when we release our results. We are shipping the best products in our history, and we remain very confident in our business. Our visibility remains rather low in the current environment, making our forecasting challenging, and we are therefore going to provide a broad range of revenue and earnings guidance for the March quarter. We expect revenue to be between about 7.6 and $8 billion. We expect gross margin to be about 32.5%, reflecting approximately $28 million related to stock based compensation expense, compared to 34.7% gross margin in the December quarter. This sequential decline reflects the impact of the stronger US dollar, the favorable adjustments from the December quarter not reoccurring, and the sequentially lower revenue as we have seen in past years. We expect OpEx to be about $1.33 billion, including about $150 million related to stock based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $60 million, reflective of the short term interest rate environment, and we expect the tax rate to be about 31%. We are targeting EPS in the range of $0.90 to $1.

In closing, we are extremely proud of our performance and record results in the December quarter. We are fortunate to have the world's best customers and employees, especially in these times. We are continuing to focus on developing the industry's most innovative products, and we are very excited about our new product pipeline. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). And our first question will come from Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks a lot and nice performance. Well, given that I'm going first, I guess I'll ask how is Steve, and hope he's doing well, and I just wanted to know how, if any, you'll run the company differently with Tim or the same, and if need be, is Tim -- do you feel like you would be the likely candidate if the worst case scenario were to happen, where Steve was unable to return. Do you feel like you would be the candidate that would steer the helm here.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, it's Peter. Steve is the CEO of Apple and plans to remain involved in major strategic decisions, and Tim will be responsible for our day-to-day operations.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Ben, let me add something to that, and back up just a bit. There is an extraordinary breadth and depth and tenure among the Apple Executive team, and these executives lead over 35,000 employees that I would call all wicked smart. And that's in all areas of the company, from engineering to marketing, to operations and sales and all the rest. And the values of our company are extremely well entrenched. We believe that we're on the face of the earth to make great products and that's not changing. We're constantly focusing on innovating. We believe in the simple, not the complex. We believe that we need to own and control the primary technologies behind the products that we make, and participate only in markets where we can make a significant contribution.

We believe in saying no to thousands of projects, so that we can really focus on the few that are truly important and meaningful to us. We believe in deep collaboration and cross pollinization of our groups which allow us to innovate in a way others cannot. And frankly, we don't settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we're wrong and the courage to change. Regardless of who is in what job, those values are so embedded in this company that Apple will do extremely well. And I would just reiterate a point Peter made in his opening comments. I strongly believe that Apple is doing the best work in its history.

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot, Tim. And I wanted to wish you all the best and Steve as well. The last question for me is just a little more on retail. Could your guys with the flat performance sequentially and what's going on in the environment, are you guys planning to scale down your expansion? And is there anything we should be concerned about long term, if retail slows, any impact on margin, maybe with regard to capacity utilization, or utilization of your properties. Anything you're thinking about there in this slower environment?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, we plan to open about 25 stores in fiscal '09. About half of those will come internationally. And Ron and his team are continuing to be very selective with real estate and won't take a bad site. Our stores are amazingly productive and are providing outstanding service to our customers. I went through some of that in my prepared remarks. The environment around us was a bit tough. But the stores performed very, very well. We are very confident in our stores and the asset that we are building.

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot. I'll cede the floor.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: And that will come from Bill Shope with Credit Suisse.

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Peter, in the past, you've noted that, in Apple's experience at least, the iPod segment is fairly price elastic, but the Mac segment is fairly inelastic. Now that you've had several quarters of iPhone data, could you help us understand whether you characterize this segment as elastic or inelastic, and if it is elastic, do you think handset price reductions would eventually make sense in this environment to spur unit demand?

TIM COOK: Bill, it's Tim. This segment is clearly elastic. And you can see that over the course of the time that we have been selling iPhone, you've seen the price -- and I'll just talk to the US market for a moment to make this simple. It moved from $599 to $399. We saw a tremendous jump in the run rate. And as we went from $399 to $199 and introduced the iPhone 3G we saw another significant jump in the run rate. There's clearly a price elasticity in this market. We believe that the $199 level -- and this includes signing up for contract obviously, that this is a compelling value and we see nothing in the marketplace anywhere close to it. We still believe that we're years ahead of the competition from a software point of view, and when you threw in the Applications Store with the statistics that Peter quoted earlier with over 15,000 Apps and over half a billion downloads in a very, very short period of time, we feel very good about our competitive position.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, and then a quick question on the gross margin line, given the gross margin up side and the guidance of the gross margins and the March quarter, I'm assuming it's not still reasonable to assume gross margins will average out at 30% for fiscal '09, as it did a few quarters ago, is that true?

TIM COOK: Well, we reported our December quarter and I've given you our guidance for the March quarter. But as I look forward, I would see our gross margins being about 30% in the second half of the fiscal 2009. Our guidance in the March quarter of 32.5 is benefiting from a very favorable commodity environment, and thanks to our hedging program, we've not seen the full impact of the US dollar strengthening, which began in August of last year. We continue to anticipate gross margins as I said, about 30 in the second half. Considering the commodity environment and the stronger dollar, we are also continuing to focus on delivering state of the art products at price points our competitors can't match. We want to provide increasing value to our customers and we're not going to leave any pricing umbrellas.

BILL SHOPE: Okay, thanks guys.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: A question from Richard Gardner with Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Okay, thank you. Peter, I guess one for you and one for Tim. First of all, you mentioned that you were giving a wider range than normal for guidance for the March quarter. However, the range is considerably more narrow than the one that you provided for the December quarter. And I realize that you're building up a base of recurring revenue with the iPhone. Is that the only factor that leads you to give a more narrow range for the March quarter? Or is there something else giving you confidence in the business going into March, which is traditionally a tougher quarter for consumer companies?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Our models are not as precise as they have been. And our visibility really isn't as good as it had been in the past. And in prior quarters, Rich, we had given more of a single point estimate for the top line. As you know and as you said in the December quarter we gave $1 billion range for revenue. But it was a much bigger quarter with a much higher level of sales expected to occur. And actually did occur in the last weeks of the quarter. But I would consider a $400 million range pretty wide for us. Yes, we do have recurring parts of our business. And we are shipping the best products that we ever have as a company. So that gives us confidence as well.

TIM COOK: I would just add that if you think back to the timing of the guidance, we were in a period of time where banks were going down what seemed like every other day, and it does seem like where the economy is clearly in bad shape, that it is not as unpredictable as it was in October perhaps.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And then as a follow-up, Tim, for you, you typically give us an update on the component pricing environment from quarter to quarter. We've seen some pretty dramatic increases at least in spot prices for things like DRAM, NAND, and flat panels here recently. And I'm wondering if you can remind us what you do to mitigate the impact of that on your cost of goods, given that you tend to adjust prices less frequently than some of your PC competition.

TIM COOK: Maybe I should talk about what I think will occur in the quarter and what occurred last quarter. Last quarter was incredibly favorable. As Peter said, it was a key factor in the reason our gross margin beat our guidance. We saw several commodities do much better than we thought like DRAM and NAND Flash and LCDs, and we saw frankly, some commodities selling at or near variable costs, and we think further reductions from those levels are just not likely. We do however in the aggregate expect a continued favorable environment on both supply and price this quarter for NAND, for DRAM, for LCD, and for drives, and for most other commodities. And so I think when you look at it in the aggregate, it will still be positive, but the falls from where we were are not going to be like they were in the Q1 time frame.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rich I would caution you to remember there's a difference between the spot markets and the contract markets.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, all right. Thank you, Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Piper Jaffray, we'll hear from Gene Munster.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon and congratulations. If you talk about the pricing environment to the pricing umbrella on the iPhone, if you look at your addressable markets and almost billion subs that you currently address, about 60% of them are noncontractual markets. Are those markets that you're potentially interested in and how should we think about your addressable market if they're a market that you're priced too high for?

TIM COOK: Gene, it's Tim. We are now in 70 countries in the iPhone and you're correct. Some of those countries are nonsubsidized markets. Examples of that are the largest example of that would be India in terms of the size of the market that we're currently in that are like that, and our sales are clearly materially less in those markets than they are in the subsidized markets that have post pay contracts. We're constantly evaluating the best way to play in these markets. We know there's a huge market opportunity there. And we'll make adjustments in the future accordingly to play in a stronger way.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. So when you talk about no pricing umbrella, you're referring more towards the subsidized markets versus nonsubsidized.

TIM COOK: You know us. We're not going to play in the low end voice song business. That's not who we are. It's not why we're here. We'll let somebody else do that. Our objective is not to be the unit share leader in the cell phone industry. It's to build the world's best phones.

GENE MUNSTER: And second, if you look at -- obviously, the strength again came from portables and Macs, and if you're going to look at the overall industry growth, there's some evidence that sub $500 netbooks are starting to gain share, and grow quickly which obviously impacts your overall market share. How do you think about that sub $500 market?

TIM COOK: We're watching that space. Right now from our point of view, the products in there are principally based on hardware that's much less powerful than we think customers want, software technology that is not good, cramped keyboards, small displays, et cetera. And so we don't think that people are going to be pleased with those type of products. And, but we'll see. We are watching the space. As you know, about 3% of the industry or the PC industry last year was in this netbook kind of category. So it's a category we watch. We've got some ideas here. Right now we think the products there are inferior and will not provide an experience to customers that they're happy with.

GENE MUNSTER: And one last very quick question in terms of Apple TV. Is there any seasonality, do you typically see a little bit of an uptick as any seasonality develops in that business?

TIM COOK: There was a tremendous pickup year-over-year. Apple TV unit sales were up almost three times versus the year ago quarter. However, let me be clear. We still consider this a hobby. However, it is clear that the movie rental business has really helped Apple TV and there are more and more customers that want to try it. And we're going to continue to invest in it because we fundamentally believe there is something there for us in the future.

GENE MUNSTER: Great, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From FTN Midwest, we have Bill Fearnley.

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST: if I could ask a question on the desktops, in the Pro segment, in the Pro segment, how did effect the Mac numbers and the desktop numbers and the update on the pro segment on the audio and video side, and then I have a follow-up.

TIM COOK: The Mac Pro percentage of our desktop business is not large. Our desktop number is primarily iMac. But to answer your question specifically, the Pro segment was down year-over-year as you might expect, because small businesses are cutting back on expenditures in this current economic climate.

BILL FEARNLEY: Any update on switching to another end user market. And any update on the education market? There's a lot of chatter about what's happening with state budgets and you folks don't do a lot in the last quarter in education. But you start getting a sense of what you might be looking at for calendar 2009. Any update to the education market here?

TIM COOK: Yes, sure. If you look at our results last quarter, we were down 6% year-over-year in total, and if you look at the K-12 component of that, which is more sensitive to the state budgets, K-12 was down 10% year-over-year. There's very significant funding uncertainty in this environment, and as you mentioned, state budget shortfalls are almost everywhere. In fact, in the data we're collecting, 39 of the 50 states have some form of shortfall. And so K-12 was weak. In the previous quarter, in Q4, it was weak again last quarter. We don't forecast individual markets, but I don't see this picking up very quickly until there's a huge infrastructure outlay, and hopefully now with the new President we may get some of that underway.

BILL FEARNLEY: If I could switch gears and get a product update from you as well, any additional thoughts on Snow Leopard? You've talked about it in the past. Any updates there on what you might have for a time line, and if you're not prepared to give a time line, any thoughts on progress in the development versus your expectations there?

TIM COOK: No comments to share today. We're very excited about the next release, but we do not have a specific launch date to announce today.

BILL FEARNLEY: Thanks, guys.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: And that will come from Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. I have a couple of questions please. Peter, on the last call your stated that iPhone channel inventory was 2 million units. Can you provide an update on that inventory level please?

TIM COOK: It's Tim. I said that last time. We did have a channel build in the previous quarter as you mentioned in the launch quarter of iPhone 3G. It was approximately 2 million units. In Q1 despite launching in 20 or so additional countries and some additional channels within countries we had previously launched, we ended the quarter with sequentially lower channel inventories. The level we're at we're very comfortable with. And I think you have to obviously take the changes in channel inventories in both quarters into consideration in looking at sequentially the sell through.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Can you help dimension how significant that change was or can you help us think through, in terms of weeks of inventory, if it was a modest draw down in channel inventory. It may or may not suggest that you're above your targeted range for other products of four to six weeks. Can you help dimension specifically how big the drawdown was in channel inventory?

TIM COOK: Sure. I'll be specific. The draw down was about a quarter of a million. In terms of your question on weeks, that I can't be specific about because we were in 70 countries for the first time last quarter. This is the first time with that many countries that we're moving from a December quarter to a March quarter, and so frankly we're uncertain exactly the seasonal pattern of demand as we move from quarter to quarter. Based on the information we've gotten from our carrier partners, we feel very comfortable with our inventory level.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you, that's helpful. Can I switch to another topic? Can you comment on relative strength in the iPod business domestic versus internationally. I think relative to investor expectations, iPod numbers were better than expected, in part, given some of the data points that emerged during the quarter about US iPod sales. Can you comment on relative growth rates of the iPod business in the US versus international? And can you comment on linearity of growth in the iPod business over the course of the quarter?

TIM COOK: in terms of geography, Toni, if you look at the United States, the iPod sales contracted at the unit level about 3% year-over-year. So all of the growth that you -- that you see in your number, the 22.7 was all international. If you look at the linearity at a worldwide level it would look very similar for each of the weeks until you get to the last week of the quarter. We saw a rush of buying the last week of the quarter. And specifically, all of our growth occurred in the last week of the quarter. We attribute that to the macroeconomic environment and its effect on consumer buying behavior.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Finally, can you help us understand if you think about your gross margins on a year-over-year basis, what kind of impact mix had on gross margins. Clearly we had some visibility from last quarter that the iPhone margins are substantially higher than the company average. That pushes up gross margins. Can you help us understand given that there was -- there were some difference in revenue growth rate across all three products this year, this quarter, what the mix impact from each product was on the margins in a year-over-year basis.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Tony, we don't talk a lob about year-over-year gross margin changes. There's a lot of moving parts. And it's more straight forward for us to talk about it sequentially. As you look back this year versus last, we have a different currency situation and a different commodity situation. And gross margins were literally flat in percent terms year-over-year. That's all I can say.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Shannon Cross with Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Just a couple of questions. The first one, Peter, how are you thinking about operating expense? You gave us the coming quarter's numbers. But just as it relates to revenue growth or anything you can talk about. You discussed on the call being a bit more conservative in how you're looking at operating expense, so any thoughts you can give us would be helpful.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We're very confident in our strategy in our business. And we're going to invest our way through this downturn just as we did the last one. And we certainly saw the benefits of innovative products and quality points of sale as the economy improved the last time around. We're continuing to invest in such areas as engineering, marketing, the customer experience, to bring the industry's most innovative products to market and delight our customers.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And given the discussions on currency, can you walk us through the impact of currency on your P&L. Topline we can understand, but in terms of sourcing and sort of how we should think about it from a COGS and SG&A standpoint.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We do have a hedging program. And our European hedges are recorded to revenue and our Asian and Canadian hedges record to COGS. We do have local expenses. They're not the biggest part of our business that can help in a changing currency environment. And the operations team has the opportunity to have conversations with suppliers as currency rate moves in as we introduce new products, we will think about changes and local pricing. And that's how we manage it.

SHANNON CROSS: And my final question is on cash. Can you just discuss any thoughts on the use of cash. Obviously, $26 billion is a pretty healthy war chest.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Not to make my answer any more difficult, but I'm proud to tell you that we're over $28 billion at this point. And that's for all the right reasons. Just very strong performance in the business. There's no new update from what we shared with you last quarter.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From UBS, we'll hear from Maynard Um.

MAYNARD UM, ANALYST, UBS: Can you just speak to the linearity of your guidance? You have three weeks under your belt here. What in particular does the guidance assume in the remaining two months.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're not going to give you an update on this quarter. We've provided our guidance for the March quarter, and in this environment, I'm thrilled to be providing guidance that has growth year-over-year and again, we're shipping the best products that we have ever shipped and thankfully, customers are responding.

MAYNARD UM: And you spoke of some uncertainty about the potential iPhone seasonality, but I presume you have visibility because of the order lead times from operators. And given iPhone 3G is still kind of in its the early days and you had some inventory drawdown, do you think you can buck the seasonal downtick that you typically see in the handset industry and see a sequential uptick in units?

TIM COOK: We don't forecast the product level. We obviously do internally, but we don't externally in terms of our guidance. But the fear that we would have and I think everyone has in this market is that the economy may slow the adoption rate of smart phones because generally smartphones command higher monthly fees and that may keep some customers to not signing up for higher contracts. But we will see. We feel very good about our competitive position as I said before. And extremely good about our product pipeline.

MAYNARD UM: Okay. Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Maynard. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: That will come from David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you very much. I was wondering if you could talk about the pluses and minuses of adding Wal-Mart as a reseller of iPhone. And what's different about Wal-Mart versus Best Buy or your own stores as far as mix and activation capability?

TIM COOK: David, it's Tim. We just started working with Wal-Mart on iPhone at the very end of December. And so we have not enough data to draw any conclusion about performance. From a reach point of view, what Wal-Mart does is reach a tremendous amount more people than we could reach in our stores. Obviously, they have over 4000 or so store fronts, and they are in areas of the country that we have no Apple stores. And so they provide a level of reach beyond what we would provide ourselves, or beyond what AT&T stores would provide. And so that's the reason we're there. As you know, we also sell iPods in Wal-Mart, and have a good relationship with them and have seen what they can do in that space. And it was with that data and knowledge that we entered into this relationship with iPhone.

DAVID BAILEY: Thank you. And then you commented a little bit about the linearity on the iPod side. Could you talk about linearity on Macs and iPhones?

TIM COOK: Mac sales were the second highest in our history, as Peter alluded to earlier, and only surpassed by just 3% from the previous quarter, which had a materially better macroeconomic landscape than we did last quarter. And as you might guess, when we announced our portables, sell through accelerated tremendously in October. And the team here did an excellent job on the production ramp. And therefore, we were able to quickly service customers, and so the October year-over-year data on the Mac is very good. And the portables all quarter, as a matter of fact led to this -- which is a pretty stunning number -- a 34% year-over-year unit increase on portables for the whole quarter despite the tough environment.

International versus the U.S., international on Mac was much stronger than the US, the US growth on the Macintosh was 2%. The international growth was 16% year over year. And we saw several countries that were above 20, like Canada and Latin America, Eastern Europe, Asia, Italy, several countries over 20. So the linearity itself, strong in October after the portable announcements, weak before it, and I had mentioned that on the last call, I believe, that we felt that people were delaying purchases on rumors of the new portables, and then for the balance of the quarter, we saw again a spike at the end of the quarter, which I think was not as strong as iPod but something that was created by the economic environment and the consumer behavior reaction to it.

On the iPhone, we have little history here to compare to and so -- it's difficult to say how we performed versus what it was supposed to be like. We saw a very strong ending of the quarter on iPhone. And in terms of during it, I really can't make an educated comment on it given it's just our second December in the business. Our first December in it in a large way rolled out through many countries.

DAVID BAILEY: Great, thanks a lot, Tim.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, David. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: From JPMorgan, we'll hear from Mark Moskowitz.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: This question is probably more for Ron, but I'll ask anyway, of you Peter, and Tim. As far as the retail stores can you give us any sort of context around the same store sales philosophy in international versus US in the past year and the follow-up on the multiplier effect, when you open up the new stores in the past year, are you seeing that pull through on the retail and also online and through the third party folks in those regions where you're opening those stores?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The retail performance outside the US was a bit stronger, similar to what we saw in other parts of the business and as Tim just alluded to in David's question. We think that our retail stores are helping us in each of our geographies. They are a great place for new customers, particularly those new to the Mac to come and experience our products, understand them, and some people choose to buy in our stores and some people may buy elsewhere. We're fine with either. We want to be sure that the Macs and the iPhones in particular have a great point of sale for new customers to come and experience them. And that's why we're opening the stores. And we plan to open about 25 in fiscal '09. And about half of them will be international.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay. And then the second question, you mentioned earlier about the third party discount you took at Best Buy and others. How have you seen those dynamics play out in the last three weeks or so since 2008. And how are you mitigating those risks?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm not sure there's much to mitigate per se. The resellers are able to do what they want. Some here in the US as an example over the December quarter certainly did do some promotional activities, particularly with iPods where they may have attached a gift card to it. And that's something they're doing and if they want to do it, it's fine. I've not observed as much of that post holiday as we saw prior to the holiday.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark. Could we have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: From Bank of Montreal, we have Keith Bachman.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: I had two margin questions. You alluded to or mentioned that there was a supply chain adjustment to gross margins in the December quarter, and I think you said it was going to reoccur in the March quarter. Could you describe what it is and how much? And then I have a follow-up question, please.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Keith, we exceeded our gross margin guidance in the December quarter by about 420 basis points. And in the range of a quarter of that were some favorable adjustments and settlements, primarily related to prior quarter items we had in the supply chain. And I don't expect those to reoccur in the March quarter, and that's one of the three primary reasons why I see the gross margin declining sequentially from the December to the March quarter.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Peter, my follow-up question -- on the non-GAAP adjustments, you provided a schedule this quarter as you did last quarter. The implied or stated gross margin increased substantially. It was about 61% this quarter versus 48% last quarter. What's the reason that gross margins increased so substantially in the non-GAAP adjustments?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. As we explained last quarter, the adjustment column reflects two things. The first is the reversal of the iPhone revenue and product costs recognized during the quarter. And then the addition of the sales value and product costs to the iPhones and Apple TVs sold in the quarter. And 61% is simply the mathematical result of these adjustments, the in and the out to revenue and cost of goods sold. The sales value of the iPhones sold and added in during the quarter was $2.6 billion and that was much larger than the recognized revenue of $1 billion that was backed out. So it's really just that overweighting that you saw last quarter. However, on a sequential basis, the iPhone 3G gross margin was higher in the December quarter and this was a result of lower product costs, partially offset by a stronger dollar. But it was less than 61% in terms of its gross margin. Just like it was less than the 48 last quarter.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Mike Abramsky with RBC Capital Markets.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks very much. Just maybe shifting to the iPhone, there's now a number of competitors coming to the market. Many who will have their own sort of variance on the kind of sort of customer experience that iPhone was famous for initiating, and that includes things like Android and Windows and the Palm III. Beyond what's obviously been a powerful leadership in applications, how do you think about sustaining that leadership and brand in the face of these competitive developments in this sector going forward?

TIM COOK: Hi Mike, it's Tim. I think it's difficult to judge products not yet in the market. The iPhone has sold over 17 million units thus far. It's received the highest overall customer satisfaction of products from many different surveys. And we've said since the beginning, software is the key ingredient and we believe that we're still years ahead on software. And I would include in that software umbrella the Applications Store and you can see the explosion in applications with over half a billion downloads. If you look at others, I think when you think about having multiple variations of displays, multiple variations of resolutions, and input methods. And many different forms of hardware, it's a big challenge to a software developer, and is not enticing for them to build a different App for every one of these things. But we shall see what people will do.

We approach this business as a software platform business. And so I think we have approached it fundamentally different than people that are approaching it only from a hardware point of view. As I've said before, we're confident with where we are competitively. We are watching the landscape. We like competition. As long as they don't rip off our IP, and if they do, we're going to go after anybody that does.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: That was actually my next question.

TIM COOK: I thought it might be and that's the reason I wanted to go ahead and get that out.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: It seems until Palm came out, many of the other players had negotiated carefully around your multi-touch IP, whereas the Palm device particularly seems to directly emulate the kind of touch interfaces that you had innovated and that Steve, when he launched the phone talked about, patented. Is that to what you're referring with regard to ripping off IP?

TIM COOK: I don't want to talk about any specific company. I'm just making a general statement that we think competition is good. It makes us all better. And we are ready to suit up and go against anyone. However, we will not stand for having our IP ripped off and we'll use whatever weapons we have at our disposal. I don't know that I can be more clear than that.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Lastly, I realize you have a transition to laptops. Given that quarter to quarter, Macs were down 3% and amidst a launch of new Macs. Can you give us a sense of what you're thinking about regarding your guidance or generally on Mac trends going forward?

TIM COOK: if you look at the Mac and the slight decline sequentially and think about the macroeconomic environment from fiscal Q4 to fiscal Q1. I think it's a fantastic result, so I'm thrilled with it. I'd remind you we grew 9% on a sell-in basis and we did take down the channel inventory some in addition to that, and the market as projected by IDC, IDC has said that the worldwide market actually contracted. You're comparing 9% to a negative number. I feel very, very good about that. If you look at our unit share in retail in the US in December, it was over 16. If you look at the revenue share, it was over 32, and Apple was number 1 in revenue share in retail in the US. I think those are all fantastic results and we're extremely proud of them.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mike. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Needham & Company, we'll hear from Charles Wolf.

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO: Yes, I have a couple of questions. On the Apple stores, what was the average number of stores open during the quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Hold on, Charlie. 249.

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. And how many one on one sessions did you have during the quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't have that in front of me and I'm sorry. We did set a record, as I said in my prepared remarks for one-to-one sessions in the quarter.

CHARLES WOLF: And my last question is there's been I believe 500 million downloads from the App store. I'm curious, what percentage were paid and what percentage were free?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: That's something Charlie that we're not disclosing. We are thrilled with the App Store. You know, it was a pleasure last week to be able to say we surpassed 500,000. It's huge to say there's more than 15,000 Apps on the store, which I would point out is again, up more than 10,000 since we last talked to you on this conference call.

CHARLES WOLF: With respect to the App Store, are you going to continue to report revenues within iTunes or are you going to separate that out at some point in the future?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: At this point it's part of iTunes and no plans to make a change at this point.

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Charlie. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store. As a webcast on www.apple.com/investor, and by telephone, and the numbers for the telephone replay are (888)203-1112 or (719)457-0820, and the confirmation code is 4939950. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5 p.m. Pacific Time today.

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling. He's at (408)974-1896, and financial analysts can contact either Joan Hooper or me with additional questions. Joan is (408)974-4570 and I'm at (408)974-5420. And thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We thank everyone for your participation, and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090128e51l001e6
  


 HD
 Q4  2008 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,472 words
   PD
21 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to this Apple Incorporated, Apple fourth quarter fiscal 2008 conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you, to everyone, for joining us. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements including without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock based compensation expense, taxes and earnings per share. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2007, the form's 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2008, and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're pleased to report our September quarter results, which were record breaking on a number of fronts. First, we sold more Macs than we have in any other quarter in Apple's history. Second, we sold more iPhones in the September quarter than in all previous quarters combined. Third, we sold more iPods than in any prior non-holiday quarter. Finally, we generated more revenue and earnings than in any previous September quarter in Apple's history.

Revenue for the quarter was $7.9 billion, representing 27% growth, and an increase of $1.68 billion over the previous September quarter's revenue of $6.22 billion. Operating margin for the quarter was better than expected at 18.3%, due to higher than anticipated gross margin. Net income was $1.14 billion, which was up 26% over prior September quarters' results, and translated to earnings per share of $1.26. As we have discussed in the past, because we may provide new features and software applications to iPhone and Apple TV customers, in the future, free of charge, in accordance with GAAP, we use subscription accounting to recognize revenue and cost of sales for these products on a straight-line basis over their two-year estimated economic lives. This results in a deferral of almost all revenue and cost of sales relate to iPhones and Apple TV during the quarter in which these products are sold to customers. In contrast, we generally recognize revenue and cost of sales for our other hardware products such as Macs and iPods at the time of sale as we do not provide new features or software applications for those products free of charge.

As we reported in our press release, iPhone unit sales grew significantly in the September quarter, resulting in a material increase in the amount of iPhone revenue and product costs that have been deferred for recognition in future periods. Specifically, deferred revenue from iPhone and Apple TV sales grew to $5.8 billion at the end of the September quarter, an increase of nearly $3.8 billion from the end of the June quarter. If iPhone revenue was not deferred, iPhone would have represented 39% of Apple's revenue in the September quarter. While our GAAP results provide significant insight into our performance, we are supplementing our analysis of the business internally by using non-GAAP financial measures that correspond to the total sales and product costs of iPhones and Apple TVs sold during the quarter. We believe these non-GAAP measures provide us with meaningful additional insight into the performance of our business, as well as provide information about iPhone and Apple TV that is similar to the information we use to analyze the performance of Macs and iPods.

Beginning with this quarter's earnings release, we plan to provide you quarterly, with non-GAAP financial measures we use in internally to help us evaluate our performance and make operating decisions. I encourage you to read the earnings press release as it provides a full description of these non-GAAP measures including how we use them, how they are derived, and their limitations.

I would now like to go through several of the non-GAAP measures. First, we use a non-GAAP measure that we call adjusted sales to provide more information regarding our underlying sales trends and to evaluate the sales dollars of products sold in the period. We calculated adjusted sales by backing out the September quarter's amortization of deferred revenue from iPhone and Apple TV sales, and adding back all amounts generally due at the time of sales for iPhones and Apple TV shipped in the September quarter. Adjusted sales totaled $11.7 billion, which was about $3.8 billion higher than our reported revenue of $7.9 billion. Second, we use a non-GAAP measure we call adjusted cost of sales that corresponds to adjusted sales. We calculated adjusted cost of sales by backing out the September quarter's amortization of deferred cost related to iPhone and Apple TV and adding back the total cost of the iPhones and Apple TVs shipped in the September quarter. We also used an estimate of the total future warranty expense related to the iPhones and Apple TVs sold in the September quarter, rather than reflecting the actual iPhone and Apple TV warranty expenses incurred during the September quarter. We then calculated the non-GAAP measure of adjusted gross margin by subtracted adjusting cost of sales from adjusted sales.

For the September quarter, adjusted gross margin was $4.6 billion, which was $1.8 billion higher than reported gross margin. Third, we used a non-GAAP measure of adjusted net income to evaluate our performance based on the current period iPhone and Apple TV sales, and to facilitate ongoing operating decision. For the September quarter, adjusted net income was $2.4 billion, which was $1.3 billion higher than reported net income. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide added transparency to our business and hope they are helpful to you in your analysis and understanding of our performance during the second quarter. Now turning to details of our results, I would like to begin with the iPhone, which had a breakout quarter thanks to the July 11th launch of the iPhone 3G. We sold nearly 6.9 million iPhones during the September quarter, exceeding the 6.1 million units shipped over the entire lifetime of the first generation iPhone. And with more than two months to go in the calendar year, we have already surpassed our goal of 10 million iPhone sales in calendar 2008.

Recognized return from iPhone handset sales, iPhone accessories and carrier payments totaled $806 million during the quarter. We dramatically expanded iPhone distribution in the last quarter. We increased the number of countries where we're selling iPhones from 6 to 51, and we expect to be in more than 70 countries by the end of the December quarter. With the addition of Best Buy, we have over 3100 points of iPhone distribution in the U.S. and with our international expansion we currently have over 30,000 points of distribution around the world.

I would like to now talk about our Mac products and services. We're pleased to have shipped over 2.6 million Macs which was a new company record for any quarter. This represents 21% year-over-year growth and is higher than the overall PC market rate of growth for the September quarter, based on the latest estimate published by IDC. Although Mac sales grew faster than the market, we believe Mac growth was impacted by purchase delays based on speculation about the new launch of our portables, and budgetary constraints affecting education institution purchases. We are unsure how the economy may have affected Mac sales in the quarter. And of course we are very enthusiastic about the new notebooks introduced last week. The new MacBook and MacBook Pro redefine notebook design while lowering the entry price for advanced notebook features, including all metal enclosures, pro performance notebook graphics, brilliant instant on LED backlit displays, and new large glass and multitouch trackpads. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Now I would like to discuss our music products and services. We sold over 11 million iPods, a new record for a nonholiday quarter, and an increase of 8% over the year-ago quarter. Last month, we introduced our new lineup of iPods including the fourth generation iPod nano featuring a sleek new curved aluminum and glass design in nine great colors. We also introduced the second generation iPod touch, building on its groundbreaking original features, while redefining the entry price of $229. Both iPods incorporate the new iTunes 8 Genius Technology which automatically creates play lists from songs in users libraries that go great together with just one click. We remain very pleased with iPod market share. Our share of the US market for MP3 players was over 70% in the month of September, based on the latest data published by NPD, and we continue to gain share year-over-year in most international markets, including the UK, France, Germany, Japan, Canada, and Australia, based on the latest data published by GFK and BCN.

We began and ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPod channel inventory. The iTunes store had a very good quarter thanks to strong music and video sales and the tremendous success of the App Store. We now have over 65 million iTunes customer accounts and a music catalog of over 8.5 million titles. We are very pleased with our fall 2008 TV line-up, which now includes prime time programming from all four major networks in stunning high-definition.

I would like to now turn to the Apple retail stores, which delivered strong results with revenue growing 37% year-over-year to 1.72 billion. The stores sold 596,000 Macs during the quarter, an all time quarterly record, and an an increase of 26% year-over-year. Over half of the Macs sold through the retail stores during the quarter were to customers who had never owned a Mac before. We opened 31 new stores during the quarter, including 13 stores outside the US to end the quarter with 247 stores. With an average of 226 stores open during the quarter, average revenue per store was $7.6 million, compared to $6.6 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 15%. Retail segment margin was $301 million, compared to $268 million in the year-ago quarter.

Our stores hosted a new all-time high of 42.7 million visitors during the September quarter, or 14,500 customers per store per week. We have continued to invest in our stores to accommodate this record-breaking traffic and to offer customers a great experience. We recently launched the fastest way to buy an iPhone, which customers are loving. After starting the process by answering a few questions online, customers can complete their iPhone purchase and activations in our stores in just about a minute longer than it takes to purchase an iPod.

Total company gross margin was 34.7%, which was better than we anticipated at the beginning of the quarter, due primarily to a better component pricing environment. To a lesser degree, we also benefited from higher software sales and payments from carriers related to first generation iPhone, and lower costs associated with the iPod product transition. Operating expenses were $1.3 billion, including $120 million in stock-based compensation expense. The OpEx total was about $30 million higher than our guidance, largely as a result of additional advertising and the operating costs of selling 6.9 million iPhones. OI&E was $140 million. The tax rate for the quarter was 28.2%, below our guidance of 30.5%, due largely to a higher than anticipated mix of foreign earnings. We are very pleased to have generated $3.7 billion in cash during the quarter, ending with $24.5 billion. Cash flow from operations was $4.3 billion. Our investment priority has been preservation of capital, which has served us well in these difficult credit markets. At the end of the September quarter, our unrealized mark to market loss was $117 million on the total portfolio of $24.5 billion, which was only an $80 million sequential increase from the end of the June quarter. We plan to hold these investments and do not expect to realize any material losses on them.

Looking ahead to the December quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We will continue our practice of providing guidance based on GAAP and will report our December non-GAAP measures to you in January when we release our results. We enter this holiday quarter with the best products we've ever shipped, including the iPhone 3G and new notebooks and iPods and we remain very confident in our business. Our visibility is low and our forecasting is challenging, and as a result, we are going to be prudent in producing the December quarter. We are providing a wide range for our guidance for the quarter and are targeting revenue between 9 and 10 billion. We expect gross margin to be between 30 and 31%, reflecting approximately $25 million related to stock-based compensation expense, down from 34.7% gross margin in the September quarter. The sequential decline in our gross margin reflects the recent introductions of the new iPods and notebooks.

We expect OpEx to be between 1.45 and $1.47 billion, including about $150 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $140 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 30.5%. We are targeting EPS between $1.06 and $1.35. In closing, we're extremely pleased with the performance of our business during fiscal 2008. We generated nearly $32.5 billion in revenue, a 35% increase from 2007, and we gained market share globally in Macs, iPods and iPhones. We are also pleased to have generated $9.1 billion in cash during the fiscal year. We're headed into the holiday season with our best product line-up ever and are excited about our expanding geographic reach with iPhone 3G. We remain very focused on developing the industry's most innovative products, managing our business, and gaining share in each of our markets.

Before we open the call to questions, we have a special guest here today who would like to say a few words and answer some of your questions. Our CEO, Steve Jobs.

STEVE JOBS, CEO, APPLE INC.: Hi, everyone. Some remarkable things are happening at Apple, but everything is now set against the back drop of this global economic slowdown. So it seemed like a good time for me to make a few remarks and help answer some of your questions.

I would like to go back and talk about the non-GAAP financial results, because I think this is a pretty big deal. In addition to reporting an outstanding quarter, today we are also introducing non-GAAP financial results which eliminate the impact of subscription accounting. As you know, subscription accounting is the solution we adopted to let us provide free software updates to iPhone users under GAAP accounting rules. In accordance with the subscription accounting treatment required by GAAP, Apple recognizes the revenue and the cost of goods sold for the iPhone over its economic life of two years rather than upon sale as we do for Macs and iPods. Because by its nature subscription accounting spreads the impact of iPhone's contribution to Apple's overall sales, gross margin and net income over two years, it can make it more difficult for the average Apple manager or the average investor to evaluate the company's overall performance. As long as our iPhone business was small relative to our Mac and music businesses, this didn't really matter much, but the past quarter, as you heard, our iPhone business has grown to about $4.6 billion, or 39% of Apple's total business, clearly too big for Apple management or investors to ignore.

Hence our introduction today of non-GAAP financial results alongside our reported GAAP results. As you can see, the non-GAAP financial results are truly stunning. By eliminating subscription accounting, adjusted sales for the quarter were $11.68 billion, 48% higher than the reported revenue of $7.9 billion. While adjusted income was $2.44 billion, 115% higher than the reported net income of 1.14 billion. Adjusted net income that is more than double our reported income. If this isn't stunning, I don't know what is. All due to the incredible success of the iPhone 3G.

I would like to now highlight two remarkable milestones resulting from iPhone's outstanding performance last quarter. The first is that Apple beat RIM! In our most recent quarter, Research In Motion, or RIM reported selling 6.1 million BlackBerry devices, compared to our most recent quarter sales of 6.9 million iPhones. Apple outsold RIM last quarter, and this is a big milestone for us. RIM is a good company that makes good products, and so it is surprising that after only 15 months in the market, we could outsell them in any quarter. But even more remarkable is this: Measured by revenues, Apple has become the world's third largest mobile phone supplier. I know this sounds crazy, but it's true. As measured in revs, not units, Apple has become the third largest mobile phone supplier.

Let's look at the ranking. Nokia is clearly number one at $12.7 billion. Samsung number two at $5.9 billion. Apple is number three at $4.6 billion. Sony Ericsson, number 4, at 4.2. LG number 5 at $3.4 billion. Motorola number 6 at 3.2, and RIM number 7 at 2.1. Pretty amazing. Now, both of these things, beating RIM in units and becoming the third largest mobile supplier in revenues are amazing feats, but part of this was the result of expanding into over 50 countries, and there's no guarantee that sustained sales will equal initial sales, and who knows what the future will be given the worldwide economic slowdown, but we actually outsold RIM last quarter and ranked as the third largest mobile phone supplier in revenues. Not bad for being in the market for only 15 months.

I would now like to talk about the App store for a few minutes. One area we, completely changed the value proposition from mobile devices is the App store. Customers will down load the 200 millionth application from the App store tomorrow. Only 102 days since its launch on July 11th. The 200 millionth App. We've never seen anything like this in our careers. There are now over 5,500 applications offered on the App store in 62 countries around the world, and the rate of new applications being submitted is increasing every week. Competitors are scrambling to keep our App store, but it's not as easy as it looks, and we are far along in creating the virtuous cycle of cool applications begetting more iPhone sales, thereby creating an even larger market, which will attract even more iPhone software development. It is clear that customers are now attracted to iPhone if only for its amazing functionality and revolutionary multi-touch user interface, but also for its unique ability to let users easily purchase, download, and use thousands of different applications, raining from free games to financial planning and health management. All of this in only 102 days.

And now I would like to touch on the notebooks that we just introduced. Last week we introduced our new MacBook and MacBook pro line. These products are very important since notebooks comprise two-thirds or more of the Macs we sell. These new MacBooks are some of the best products we've ever created, and it's already clear our customers love them. We had a very, very strong launch and are anxiously waiting to see the demand trajectory that will unfold during the quarter. The level of quality these products deliver to customers is mind-blowing for their price points. The unibody precision aluminum enclosures would normally cost hundreds of dollars by themselves. The electronics, especially the graphics, are state of the art in mobile computing, and features like the glass track pad are unique in the industry. With the introduction of LED backlit displays on these mainstream notebooks, over 90% of the notebook's Apple cells now use LED backlit displays. Another thing worth noting is that these new notebooks are the greenest products Apple has ever offered. You'll hear more and more about that from us in the future.

So now let's turn to the economy. To the broader market conditions resulting from the global economic slowdown and credit crisis. First let me say that we are not economists. Your next door neighbor can likely predict what is going to happen as accurately as we can, but we do know a few things. First, we have the best customers in the world. I wouldn't trade our customers for any other company's customers in the entire world. They are some of the smartest, most product-aware customers in the market, and they have chosen Apple's quality hardware and software products. While they may postpone purchases in tough times, they are unlikely to abandon the quality and seamless integration which they have personally experienced and become accustomed to with apples products. So if the economic down turn does affect them, they are more likely to delay than switch.

Two. We still have a minority market share of the PC market, and a miniscule market share of the mobile phone market. While we may not appeal to every prospective customer, the percentage of prospective customers we need to attract in order to significantly increase our market share isn't that many, and we have 250 Apple retail stores that already sell half their Macs to new to Mac customers. Three. We have the best product line-up in Apple's history. The new MacBooks in particular should trigger a serious upgrade cycle our install base. We'll see. I feel very good about our product line-up as we head into the holidays and beyond.

Four, we have the most talented and creative employees in the world. Just look at their results. The new MacBooks, the iMac, the iPhone, the iPod Nano and Touch, Leopard, iLife and on and on. None of our competitors can deliver products in this class. And five: we have almost $25 billion safely in the bank and zero debt. This provides us tremendous stability and the ability to invest our way through this down turn. This is what we did during the last down turn. We increased R&D investments and created some of our best new products and businesses, like the Apple retail stores for one. This down turn may also present some extraordinary opportunities for companies that have the cash to take advantage of them, like Apple does.

In summary, we have the strongest product line-up in Apple's history, the most talented employees, and the best customers, and $25 billion in the bank. We may get buffeted around by the waves a bit, but we'll be fine, and stronger than ever when the waters calm in the future. With that, I'd like to open it up for questions for Peter, Jim, or myself.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). And your first question will come from [Bill Schultz] with Credit Suisse.

BILL SCHULTZ, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Okay. Great, thank you. Steve, clearly your results and the guidance today paint two very different pictures of the world, and I'm wondering, have you seen any trends in recent business that would suggest such a disparity, or is this just prudence give all the macro headlines we're seeing right now?

STEVE JOBS: Well, there's a lot of prudence in there, but it's also October, and October has always been a little bit of a foggy month for us. We're always biting our nails, wondering whether we ordered too many iPods or this or that for the holiday quarter, because sales obviously don't take off until November sometime, so the months of October and April are our slowest during the year, and, we think we're doing the right things, we think we know what the results may be, but October and April are foggy months for us in terms of predicting the whole quarter, but there's a lot of prudence built in. We're not economists and we read the same newspapers you do.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Next question will come from Richard Gardner with Citi.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you, Steve. Steve, thanks for being on the call. I would like to start off with a question regarding share repurchase and just ask your and the board's late effort thoughts on share repurchase now. I understand that cash is a good thing to have in the current environment, but you're using relatively little of that cash for things like retail store openings and for investments in the business. What are your thoughts to returning some to shareholders?

STEVE JOBS: I think this economic downturn may present some extraordinary opportunities to companies that have cash. I think cash is already king, and it may get more so that way. So we're very comfortable with our cash position in the bank, and it's not burning a hole in our pocket.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Thank you. And if I could follow-up, Peter, and maybe ask if you could give us a sense of how much of the gross margin outlook for the fourth quarter is related to the higher costs associated with the aluminum unibody enclosures, and maybe some sense of how much more expensive that is than the way you were doing things previously.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, the guidance that I provided, Rich, the sequential decline, really is driven from the introductions of the notebooks and iPods, which we couldn't be more excited about, and there's many, many new technologies, new features in those besides the unibody, but that contributed. As I said on the last call, we were going to introduce these products. They were initially going to have higher costs, and through volume manufacturing and cost engineering, we're going to work to get down the cost curve over time. But we've made a big investment in these products, and these are some of the of the best we've ever shipped.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Peter could I ask one more? And that is we've seen a 35% decline in aluminum pricing so far, well, since you gave the guidance for fiscal '09 gross margin, aluminum is down 35%. How quickly can we expect that to start flowing through the P&L? thank you.

STEVE JOBS: We certainly sell our new Mac books cheap per we just delivered them with a block of aluminum, but we have to machine that aluminum, and it's a fairly precision operation, so the cost of the aluminum matters some, but is not a dominant cost.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks a lot. Steve, can you talk about the pricing of your Mac line right now and how you feel that is positioned going into this economy, and, in particular, as well, maybe, your thoughts? There's this new net book category that's getting a lot of hype, and just where do you see that playing out in the market place and your position in the market there?

STEVE JOBS: Well, again, this particular down turn is not creating a market of cheaper computers. That market has existed for some time. And there are parts of that market that we choose not to play in. I think when people want a product of the class that we make, over and over again people have done the price comparisons, and we're actually quite competitive. So we choose to be in certain segments of the market, and we choose not to be in certain segments of the market. And the question is, is the downturn going to drive some of our customers to those lower segments of the marketplace and get to buy lesser products. And I will be surprised if that happens in large numbers, and I actually think that there are still a tremendous number of customers that we don't have in the Windows world or in the other 99% of the phone market we don't have, who would like to and can afford to buy Apple products.

So, we'll see what the ratio of those two things are, but we're not tremendously worried. As we look at the netbook category, that's a nascent category, as best as we can tell, not a lot of them getting sold. One of our entrants into that category, if you will, is the iPhone, for browsing the Internet and doing e-mail and all of the other things that a net book lets you do, and being connected via the cellular net wherever you are, an iPhone is a pretty good solution for that, and it fits in your pocket. But we'll wait and see how that nascent category evolves, and have some pretty interesting ideas if it does evolve.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Great, thanks. And just a quick follow-up on the iPhone, given it's so new for you, Steve, do you have any view on how it will do in this economy? And in particular, you know, you still have some international expansion going on, so just given the iPhone is new, we've been through down turns with Macs, although a long time ago, and maybe even consumer devices, this iPhone is so new, how do you see it doing in this economy?

STEVE JOBS: We'll be glad to tell you how it does.

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thanks a lot.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Shannon Cross. Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Yes. A question with regard to channel inventory and what you're seeing in terms of iPhone, iPod, Macs. Comments from the retailers? I know it's October, and as you said, it's a bit foggy, but any sort of thoughts on how things are positioned that you can give us in more detail than how you provided earlier?

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Shannon, it's Tim. In the Mac area, as Peter said in his opening comments, we began and ended the quarter between three and four weeks of inventory, and that's below our target, as you know, of four to five weeks. In the iPod, we began and ended between four and six weeks, which is right in our target range, and on the iPhone, we were shipping to carriers in 51 countries by the end of the quarter, and we had over 30,000 points of distribution. With the 44 countries that we had launched prior to the end of August, the weeks of inventory that we had at the end of the quarter for those countries was less than six weeks. For the remaining seven countries where launches occurred in late September or early October, we don't have enough data yet to quantify the weeks of inventory. However, to be precise, at the end of the quarter, I can tell you that we had about 2 million iPhones in total channel inventory across all all of the 51 countries, and we feel that this inventory is about right.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And curious, any idea on how much the Mac refresh would have impacted, sales last quarter as you sort of cleared the channel?

TIM COOK: I think if you look at the Mac, there are two things that I believe impacted the Mac sales last quarter, and possibly a third. The first is that US K to 12 institutional sales were down 7% year on year to about 200,000 units, and this is due to state and local budget constraints. California in particular was down 28% year on year. That 7% contraction was a significant change from what we had seen in the first three quarters of the fiscal year, which were up 29%. In particular, purchases of a thousand units or more were down significantly, both sequentially and year-over-year. In the unit sales had grown last quarter in K to 12 at 29%, which is what we had seen going into the quarter, instead of contracting by 7%, the Mac unit sales would have been 75,000 units higher, and so this was a -- a big issue for the quarter from a Mac perspective. The second thing that we -- that we believe was that customers were delaying purchases because of the portable transition. As you know, there were rampant rumors and lots of press reports about a potential portable transition, and we saw some slowing toward particularly the final weeks of September and the initial weeks of October. However, once announcing last week, we saw a considerable rebound in sales, and we're very, very optimistic about those results.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And then just a final question for Steve. Any chance we can get you to make this a recurring event?

STEVE JOBS: Not likely. I'm sorry.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thanks.

STEVE JOBS: Peter and Tim do such a good job that I don't think I could add much.

SHANNON CROSS: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Thanks for providing the non-GAAP results. That's just helpful and really points to the power that the iPhone is having on you and clearly you're off to a phenomenal start there. Steve, can you talk about the bigger picture for the iPhone in 2009 when the field is starting to get more cluttered with iPhone wannabes an and how do you just, big picture, think about your road map for '09 and the phone?

STEVE JOBS: Well, I think we have to be the best, and I think we have to not leave a price umbrella underneath us. And we're working very hard to fulfill both of these goals. And I think we're way out ahead of anybody else right now, and we're investing a lot with the most talented people in the world, to stay that way. We have a great partner in AT&T, and together I think we're both very committed to making the iPhone a great value for customers. So we'll be focused on all of those things next year and beyond.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Can you give any sort of split in terms of phones sold in U.S. versus international?

TIM COOK: Not specifically, but I would tell you that there was a significant percentage internationally.

GENE MUNSTER: And just a final question, Peter, last quarter you talked about the margin impact and the potential for these new products, and seems like margins, once again, were phenomenal. Can you just help us understand, should we still be waiting for something, or have we seen what happened in just the price environment was much more favorable than you had expected? How do we reconcile your comments last quarter versus what we're seeing right now?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, really the latter. We have introduced stunning new iPods and notebooks. They cost more, and that's why our margin declined sequentially. As I told you 90 days ago, we don't talk about new products, so it was hard to make the comments that I did, and be clear, but you've now seen what we've done, and I've provided guidance for 30 to 31% this quarter, and we're going to continue to work to get down the cost curves over time on these great products.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. I guess one final question, did you actually see a deceleration in your business? did you see any sort of deceleration towards the end of September, or is the guidance just purely trying to be as conservative as possible?

TIM COOK: On the iPod side, iPod was up 8% for the full quarter as Peter mentioned earlier. In the final weeks of September and the early weeks of October, we were running flat year-over-year on a worldwide perspective, and now as we -- as we look forward, it's very difficult to predict whether the usual seasonal holiday lift will exist in the same pattern as it has before. As we said, forecasting is very difficult. On the Mac, I commented that we did see what we believe were purchasing delays, due to last week's portable transition, and, also, the K-12 institutional business was down year-over-year last quarter.

GENE MUNSTER: Would it be safe to summarize your comments as that you have seen some sort of an impact, it looks like it's more slowdown ahead of the Mac cycle, and so it's less economy related and more just your general conservatism

TIM COOK: It's difficult to separate how much was the purchase delay versus economy. It could have all been delay. Could be some part due to the economy. We just don't know. What we are very excited about is the rebound last week was great. However, forecasting that going forward with the visibility that we have is just very difficult.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Charles Wolf with Needham.

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO: Yes, I have a question for Steve, and well, for anybody, the performance of the I was absolutely astonishing, but it was probably more so in this respect, that most of the phones sold in the quarter were probably net activations as oppose to reupgrades from the first gen. I was wonder, do you have any percentages on how maybe of the iPhones went to new users, and what percentage went to the first gen people?

TIM COOK: Charlie, it's Tim. That's confidential information to our carrier partners, but I would point of that we expanded the number of countries we sold in from 6 to 51, and so there was an extraordinary amount of iPhones being sold to people for the first time.

CHARLES WOLF: Yes. Well, my point is simply that over half of RIM's sales, BlackBerry sales are upgrades, not new users, so I would argue that Apple did better than it would appear given the numbers.

STEVE JOBS: We're happy just to -- we're just happy to beat them on a number to number comparison.

CHARLES WOLF: Well, keep it up, Steve.

STEVE JOBS: We'll try.

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: And we'll hear from Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. I have a question or two for Peter and Tim, and clarifications for Steve. For Peter and Tim, can you talk about the forces at work in terms of iPhone volumes for Q4? Typically, last year we saw iPhone volumes double in the calendar fourth quarter. You're also expanding distribution, both of those are obviously forces that would suggest that the iPhone number could be considerably higher. Obviously, on the flip side of that, you did have a stocking of your channel which won't be as significant in Q4, and we have economic uncertainty. Should investors be thinking about strong seasonal growth in the iPhone for calendar Q4, and, if not, why?

TIM COOK: Tony, it's Tim. We don't predict unit sales as a product level, but what I would point out is that we did begin shipping in many more countries last quarter, from 6 to 51, as I had said, and I, we just launched the phone on July 11th, so we did have a channel build. That channel build was about 2 million units, as I had mentioned previously, and so that's something you would have to take into account in predicting our fiscal Q1 sales. We will expand into more countries. We're on target to be in over 70 by the end of the year. However, the countries that we are expanding in are clearly have -- there's less opportunity in those than the 50 that we have rolled out so far, and so you would have to take that into consideration. We are confident that year-over-year, that sales will be up significantly. What they do sequentially, our crystal ball is not working at the moment, and so we would leave that for you to -- you to predict.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then on the gross margin side, you're guiding for 30 to 31% for Q1, and you said that you expect to be able to ride down the cost curve as volumes ramp going forward. How does that -- how should we think about your previously stated guidance of 30% gross margin for fiscal year 2009 in light of those two statements?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. In last quarter's call, I said that we anticipated gross margin being about 30%, in fiscal 2009, and our guidance for the December quarter is consistent with that, at 30 to 31%. As we look forward, we continue to anticipate gross margins of about 30% in 2009. We're delivering state of the art products that price points that our competitors can't match, and that's resulting in market share gains in each of our product areas. We're going to continue with this strategy of delivering great products and making a reasonable margin, but as Steve said, we're not going to leave an umbrella for competitors.

TIM COOK: Toni, I would point out, just to show the breadth of what we done, when we took touch price down, we took it down from $299 to $229 for the entry price, and the units above it were moved $399 to $299, and $499 to $399, so significant price cuts on Touch. We also doubled the memory at the same price on Nano, while providing an incredibly new design. Also, on the notebooks, as you know from last week, the entry price went from $10.99 to $9.99 -- from $1099 to $999, and brought to the Mac pro range, which is essentially at $700 less than what we were offering before. And so we've made an enormous round of cuts to provide more value to our customers.

TONI SACCONAGHI: That's a good segue for the to things I wanted to just clarify with Steve. Steve, you mentioned a couple of times that you thought there were extraordinary opportunities for companies with cash. Think you could hire almost every engineer in Silicon Valley on a life time employment contract and not really dent that significant cash hoard that you have. When you made that statement, are you suggesting that there are significant opportunities for Apple outside of Apple, specifically in terms of acquiring companies?

STEVE JOBS: I just meant exactly what I said, which is I think there's going to be some significant opportunities. I think the hiring every engineer in Silicon Valley is a good to idea, though, thank you.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And you had also mentioned the price umbrella statement, and you said, look, you know, certainly to be successful on iPhone, we don't want to create a price umbrella. I think in response to another question, you also talked about extraordinary feature functionality in terms of -- in terms of the -- your Mac products. Are you -- do you have the same philosophy around Mac as you do with iPhone, that you have to be careful not to create an umbrella in each? and so I guess the simple question is, should we continue to see more affordable price points across the Mac product family, and across iPhone going forward?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I think what we want to do is deliver a lot -- an increasing level of value to these customers. There are some customers which we choose not to serve. We don't know how to make a $500 computer that's not a piece of junk. And our DNA will not let us ship that, but we can continue to deliver greater and better value to those customers that we serve, and there's a lot of them. And we've seen great success by focusing on certain segments of the market and not trying to be everything to everybody. So I think you can expect us to stick with that winning strategy, and continuing to try to add more and more value to those products in those customer bases we choose to serve. Does that make sense to you?

TONI SACCONAGHI: Yes, it does. I guess the -- if I could follow up. The -- you did in this cased a more value in terms of feature functionality with your notebook by actually lowering the price, so you retained the features, but lowered the price. Certainly in terms of the new notebooks, you lowered the price and added more features.

NANCY PAXTON: Correct.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Can we expect you to continue to attract more customers by doing both. Adding features at the same price, and lowering price and retaining the same features?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we like to attract new customers, but you'll just have to wait and see.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you Tony. Could I have the next question, please

OPERATOR: And that will come from Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest.

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST: Yes, thanks. If I could have ask a question for Steve and a quick followup to Peter and Tim. Steve, how are you thinking about Apple TV now. You've had a heck of a year. For fiscal year you've upgraded in the iPhones, iPods, and certainly the Macintoshes as well. If you look at the digital living room category and you look at the upcoming year for 2009, how do you have look at the digital living room opportunity and how it relates to Apple TV?

STEVE JOBS: Well, again, I think the whole category is still a hobby right now. I don't think anybody has succeeded at it. And actually the experimentation has slowed down. A lot of the early companies that were trying things have faded away. So I would have to say that given the economic conditions, given the venture capital outlooks and stuff, I continue to believe it will be a hobby in 2009.

BILL FEARNLEY: And if I could switch quickly to tablet computing and touch-screens. You've made comments about those in the past. when you look at tablet computing and you look at the new norm fact for the Macs and those type of things, does that get to be a more attractive opportunity for you going forward here, now that the new Macs are out?

STEVE JOBS: I think we have such creative people that are looking at a lot of of things, but I really can't talk about any of the future products we're working on, I'm sorry.

BILL FEARNLEY: Thanks for that. And Peter, when you talk about your expectations here for the upcoming quarter, what's your expectation for meeting or getting close to equilibrium from demand and supply perspective here in the first quarter in '09, and are there any credit issues in the channel affecting your revenue projections for the upcoming quarter, either in the U.S. or other GOs, so it's a new product and a credit issue question for the guidance in the first quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, I'll make a comment or two on the credit, and Tim can speak about your -- but I think the first part of your question. This is definitely a concerning environment from a credit perspective. Our Treasury team has done just an amazing job with our cash. I was so proud to tell you in my opening comments that our mark to market unrealized mark to market on a portfolio only increased $80 million sequentially on over $24 billion of cash. So they've done a -- they've done a great job. On the receivables side, we have historically been very good in that area. And we have good people. We stay on top of collections and we monitor accounts, I think as any company does, but it's a tough environment out there. And we're being as careful as we can, and hopefully, you know, we won't have issues in the future.

TIM COOK: Bill, let me take the three product areas and briefly comment on your question. In the iPod space at the end of the quarter, we were still filling the channel to get the new products at the right level in the channel. We are now completed that, but we're not at the end of last quarter. In the iPhone, as I had alluded to before, we thought we ended with the right level of channel inventory, and it's -- it's difficult to predict demand for the quarter, but today I know of no issues in providing the right lovely of supply. On the Mac side, we have significant backlogs on the new products, and we are working very, very hard around the clock to fill those just as fast as we can, and we'll see what the trajectory of demand is, but I'm confident that we can produce a lot. Whether it's enough, I don't know, because it's hard to forecast the demand.

BILL FEARNLEY: Well, if the fog lifts in October, and your demand visibility gets better at the beginning of November, do you still have time to ramp your builds to affect the first quarter number then, from a supply chain perspective?

TIM COOK: We're obviously making bets on the demand already, and so we are predicting, it's just hard for us to forecast for external consumption.

BILL FEARNLEY: Thanks for the details, folks.

TIM COOK: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. Could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: That will come from Mike Abramsky with RBC Capital Markets.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks very much. Steve, you only have really one SKU in the phone biz, and the phone market is 10 times the size of PC market. You say you continually strive to be the best. At the same time, what might be the opportunities for further innovation or market opportunities within that market?

STEVE JOBS: Well, I wasn't alive then, but I -- from everything I've heard, Babe Ruth had only one home run, he just kept hitting it over and over again. So I don't think that -- I think the traditional -- the traditional game in the phone market has been to produce a voice phone in a hundred different varieties, but as software starts to become the differentiating technology of this product category, I think that people are going to find that a hundred variations presented to a software developer is not very enticing. And most of the competitors in our -- in this phone business do not really have much experience in a software platform business. So we're extremely comfortable with our strategy, our product strategy going forward, and we purchase it as a software platform company which is pretty different than most of our competitors.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. And I think earlier there's been lots of discussion about limited visibility on whether there's delays to purchases, or the economy. When do you think you get better visibility to things like Mac upgrade or uptake cycles, versus economy-related headwinds or changes in buyer patterns here given so much uncertainty. Is that first quarter next year? And is your price point comment about we're going to restrict ourselves to certain markets we're going to play in. Is that firm, or are there alternative strategies you might employ if you don't get the upgrade cycles or response to the price point stance that you're looking for?

STEVE JOBS: Mike, I think the answer to your question is different by product. On iPod, historically, about half of our sell-through occurs in December, and so the question of iPod visibility, we'll get a lot better visibility as we head into December on this quarter. Before then, the visibility will be limited. In the Mac area, the question is the -- how much was purchasing delay versus economy, if at all, and we'll gain knowledge on that each week, but it will take some number of weeks before we're able to meet the demand in that space, and so I think it will take a little while longer.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. Thank you very much.

STEVE JOBS: Yes.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Mike. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks as a podcast on the iTunes store. As a webcast on Apple.Com/Investor, and via telephone, and the numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820, and the confirmation code is 5643095. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts can contact either Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-947-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation. Have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081028e4al002bm
  


 HD
 Q3  2008 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,561 words
   PD
21 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to this Apple, Incorporated's fiscal year 2008 third quarter results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead, ma'am.

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by Apple's COO, Tim Cook, and Treasurer Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts.

   TD
Please note that some of the information you will hear during our discussion today may consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, iPhone sales, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2007, the forms 10-Q for the first two quarters of fiscal 2008, and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today, and the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer, for introductory remarks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're very pleased to report the highest June quarter revenue and earnings in Apple's history. Revenue in the quarter was $7.46 billion, representing 38% growth and the increase of more than $2 billion over the previous June quarter's revenue of $5.41 billion. The strong year-over-year growth was driven by the highest quarterly Mac shipments ever, and higher revenue from iPod, iTunes, and iPhone, which celebrated its first anniversary on June 29. Operating margin for the quarter was better than expected, at 18.6%, due primarily to higher than anticipated revenue and gross margin. Net income was $1.07 billion, which was up 31% over the prior June quarter's results, and translated to earnings per share of $1.19.

Before getting into the details of the quarter's results, I'd like to begin with a few points that demonstrate how well Apple has continued to perform. The current June quarter's revenue growth of 38% was significantly above the 24% growth rate we achieved in last year's June quarter, and we continue to see healthy growth in all regions. Sales in our retail stores, most of which are in the US, were extremely strong, growing 58% year-over-year, and store traffic was about $32 million, up $10 million from the year-ago quarter. In looking at our performance for the first six months of calendar 2008, Apple's total revenue increased by $4.3 billion year-over-year, a very impressive growth rate of 40%. We are very proud of these results.

I'd like to now talk about our Mac products and services, which represented 61% of our total revenue in the June quarter. We're extremely pleased to have shipped 2.5 million Macs, the greatest number of Macs shipped in any quarter in Apple's history. This translates into 41% year-over-year growth, and is nearly 3 times the overall PC market rate of growth for the June quarter, based on the latest estimates published by the IDC. Mac desktop sales grew sharply at 49% year-over-year, driven by strong demand for iMac, which we updated in April. Sales of portables were up 37% year-over-year, driven by continued growth in demand for MacBooks and MacBook Pros, and the addition of MacBook Air to the portable line-up in January.

We've been thrilled with the momentum of our Mac business. In the US channels tracked and reported by NPD, Apple's share of total personal computers sold in the month of June increased to 19.5% this year, from 15.4% last year, and it was the best Mac quarter ever for our US education business, with unit growth of 25% year-over-year. We were extremely pleased with our strong growth in both the K to 12 market, where we reached a new all-time high for quarterly Mac sales, as well as the higher ed market, where we sold more Macs than in any previous June quarter. We ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Now, I'd like to discuss our music products and services, which accounted for 33% of total revenue growth during the quarter. We sold 11 million iPods, an increase of 12% from the year-ago quarter, with the growth being driven by Shuffle as well as the introduction of the iPod Touch last September. We were pleased with the iPod sales growth of 10% in the United States and 15% internationally. iPod revenue grew 7% year-over-year, less than the unit rate of growth, due to lower ASPs, driven largely by the Shuffle price reduction taken in February. We're happy with the demand elasticity that we've seen for the iPod Shuffle and think that the tradeoff between ASP and units was a good one.

We were very successful in maintaining our high mp3 market share in the US during the quarter, and gaining share internationally. Our share is now over 70% in both the United States and Australia, over 60% in Canada, and over 50% in the UK, Japan, and Switzerland, based on the latest published data from NPD, GFK, and BCN. We have strong double-digit share in numerous other European and Asian countries, and we continue to gain share year-over-year in most countries for which we have data. We began and ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPod channel inventory.

The iTunes store achieved a number of milestones during the quarter, and sales were once again very strong. As we indicated last month, we have now sold over 5 billion songs through iTunes, and continue to build on our industry-leading catalog of content, which features over 8 million songs, 20,000 TV episodes, and 2,200 films, including over 450 in HD. In the June quarter, we introduced new content from HBO to iTunes in the US, premiered movies in Canada and the UK, and introduced television programming in Germany, France, and Australia. iTunes also began offering new movies from major studios and premiere independent studios on the same dates as they became available on DVD.

During the June quarter, we shipped 717,000 first-generation iPhones, and recognized revenue from iPhone handset sales, accessories, and carrier payments of $419 million. As we indicated previously, because we announced the iPhone 2.0 software and its many new features on March 6, but did not make it available until this month, we did not begin recognizing handset revenue for any iPhones sold on or after March 6 until we made the iPhone 2.0 software available. For those phones recognized -- for those phones, we began recognizing handset revenue on July 11, and we will continue to do so under the respective remaining terms of their 24-month estimated economic lives. Therefore, any iPhone handset revenue recognized during the June quarter relates to iPhones sold prior to March 6.

We're off to a great start with the iPhone 3G. We have begun shipping in 22 countries. As we announced last week, we sold our 1 millionth iPhone 3G just 3 days after its launch, in contrast to the 74 days it took us to sell 1 million first generation iPhones. Customer reaction to the iPhone 3G has been overwhelmingly positive, and we look forward to getting it into the hands of many more customers around the world in the coming weeks and months.

We launched the App Store on July 11 with tremendous selection of innovative applications, such as games, advanced medical solutions, and robust productivity tools for the enterprise. The App Store currently offers more than 900 applications with more than 20% that are free and more than 90% priced at less than $10. Customers are really loving the App Store and the iPhone and iPod Touch users have already downloaded over 25 million applications. We believe this amazing selection of mobile applications will continue to keep us years ahead of the competition.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores, which delivered very strong results, with revenue growing 58% year-over-year to $1.44 billion. The store sold 476,000 Macs during the quarter, an increase of 44% year-over-year, and over half were sold to customers who have never owned a Mac before. The stores also provided a record high 590,000 personal training sessions during the quarter, helping customers to learn more about their Apple products. We opened eight stores during the quarter, including our store on Boylston Street in Boston, and our first store in Australia to end the quarter with 216 stores. With an average of 211 stores open during the quarter, average revenue per store was $6.8 million compared to $5.1 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 33%. Retail segment margin was $297 million, compared to $184 million in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 61%. We're on track to end fiscal 2008 with 242 stores. We opened our first store in Beijing this past weekend, and we look forward to extending our international retail store presence by opening stores in Switzerland and Germany during the second half of this calendar year.

Total company gross margin was 34.8%, which exceeded our guidance by about 180 basis points as a result of several factors. First, we realized a net benefit to gross margin of about 70 basis points, primarily related to a one-time true-up of our contract manufacturer deferred margins. Second, the remaining 110 basis points resulted primarily from a better commodity environment, a richer product mix, and leverage from higher than expected revenue. Operating expenses were $1.21 billion, including $112 million in stock-based compensation expense. OI&E was $118 million. The tax rate for the quarter was 29%, below our guidance of 31% due to a higher than anticipated mix of foreign earnings. We generated $1.33 billion in cash during the quarter, ending with $20.8 billion. Cash flow from operations was $1.32 billion. In the first three quarters of fiscal 2008, Apple generated over $5.4 billion in cash on $3.7 billion in net income. The primary contributor to the difference between our reported income and our cash growth is the tremendous cash generation from iPhone sales that has not been fully reflected as earnings yet, due to subscription accounting.

Looking ahead to the September quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, we are targeting revenue of about $7.8 billion, or approximately 25% growth over the prior September quarter. We're off to a great start with the iPhone 3G, and expect to sell more iPhones this quarter than we have in any other quarter thus far. Under subscription accounting, iPhone sales today will have limited impact on reported results in the quarter sold. However, those sales will build significant revenue and earnings that will be reported in future quarters. We expect gross margin to be about 31.5%, reflecting approximately $23 million related to stock-based compensation expense, down from 34.8% in the June quarter. This sequential decline is expected due to three primary factors. First, the full quarter impact of the back-to-school promotion; second, a future product transition, which I can't discuss today; and third, the one-time true-up of our contract manufacturer deferred margin that we realized in the June quarter.

We expect OpEx to be about $1.270 billion, including $125 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $120 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 30.5%. We expect to generate EPS of about $1.

In closing, we are very pleased with our results. We've just reported the strongest quarterly Mac sales in Apple's history and have completed a fabulous first year with the iPhone. We're very enthusiastic about iPhone 3G, as well as the potential of the developer community and the App Store to provide outstanding application to make the iPhone and the iPod Touch even richer experiences for our customers. We expect revenues in fiscal 2008 to be about $32.4 billion, an increase of 35% year-over-year. We also remain very excited about our product pipeline, and look forward to delivering more great new products later this year. With that, I would like to open the call to questions.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) And our first question will come from Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest.

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST: Yes, thanks. Peter, you mentioned quickly here, future product transitions and its effect on gross margins. Is there a corresponding effect on revenue growth here that you're expecting in the September quarter? Because the September quarter revenue growth, quite frankly, looks conservative. Does the product transition affect revenue growth expectations as well? And then I just have a quick follow-up.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Bill, for the quarter, we're targeting revenue of about $7.8 billion, 25% growth over last September. We have included in our revenue guidance the full quarter ASP impact of the back-to-school promotion, a future product transition that I can't discuss today, and also the elasticity that we've seen from the iPod Shuffle price reduction and its result on ASP. Now, I would tell you that we are very happy with our revenue growth, and we've just reported the best Mac quarter ever, and double-digit iPod growth and are off to a fantastic start with the iPhone 3G. We expect to sell more iPhones this quarter than we have in any previous quarter, but this will have a limited impact on the September quarter, but will build significant revenue and earnings, which we'll report in future quarters. If iPhone sales were reported as revenue when sold, the September revenue guidance would be significantly higher.

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay, thanks. And then lot of folks are talking about Apple's penetration in emerging markets. Can you give additional color about sales outside the US for Mac and iPod in particular here? Any additional color in terms of where you saw upside surprises and then in any additional color you can give preliminarily on the few days you've been out there in China? Thanks.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Bill, this is Tim. Europe had an outstanding quarter. Revenue grew at 43%, so higher than the overall company, and Japan for the third straight quarter has grown higher than the overall company this quarter at 40%. And Asia-Pacific continues to do extremely well, with a year-over-year increase in the Mac area of 53%. And so if you look at the Mac areas in each one, Europe is growing at about four times the market, according to IDC. Japan was growing at four to five times. Asia-Pacific was growing at two to three times.

In terms of some of the markets that you mentioned, we had several markets in the developing market area that were growing over 50% in revenue year-over-year such as China, Russia, and Latin America. But surprisingly, we also saw some of the more mature markets growing at over 50% year-over-year, such as France and Germany and Australia. So overall, it was a very, very strong quarter in every major geographic region. And the store is off to a good start in Beijing. We're very happy with what we see there thus far.

BILL FEARNLEY: And one last question, if I could. On the new stores, any change to your expectations here for store openings for the next 12 months?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, we've not announced our plans for '09, but as I said in my prepared remarks, we expect to end fiscal '08 at 242 stores. That is up 45 from last year.

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay, thanks very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Citigroup, we'll hear from Richard Gardner.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Tim, could you talk about how many Best Buy stores you added in the quarter? And then, Peter, as a follow-up, it looks like you're still below your target range on Mac channel inventory. Should we -- is the target range changing or at some point should we expect the Mac inventories to get back to the sort of 4 to 5-week range that you've talked about historically?

TIM COOK: Rich, it's Tim. We added about 170 Best Buy stores across the quarter. That brings us to a total of about 570, and we plan to be at around 600 by the end of the summer. Globally, we now have about 10,300 storefronts carrying the Macintosh and that's up about 1600 storefronts year-over-year. And the channel inventory, we did end at the three to four weeks, we still feel that four to five weeks is the appropriate target.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Ben Reitzes with Lehman Brothers.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Yes, good afternoon, thanks. Could you talk a little bit about gross margins? Obviously so good in the quarter, even taking out the 70 basis points and then you're guiding to 31.5. Could we just talk a little bit about the changes in commodity environment in particular, maybe a little bit more about -- it sounds like it's more the BTS promo, back to school promo and the product transition, excluding the true-up here. But could you just talk a little bit more about what you think components will do and why?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, this is Peter. Let me start by just kind of going through some of the factors that caused us to do a little better in June, what we see for the September quarter, and then Tim can answer your commodity question. And then I would actually like to follow up after Tim does and talk a little bit about what we see in some future quarters.

In the June quarter, we did do about 180 basis points better than our guidance. And this was driven, as I said, in my prepared remarks by a one-time true-up that we had with our contract manufacturer, deferred margin of about 70 basis points. The remaining 110 was primarily driven by a better commodity environment than we planned, a bit richer of a product mix and leverage from the higher revenue. As I look forward to the September quarter, I would see gross margin being about 31.5%, down from the 34.8 as a result of primarily three factors. First, the full quarter impact of the back-to-school promotion that we are running. Second, we've got a future product transition that I can't discuss with you today, and then finally, the one-time true-up with the contract manufacturer deferred margin won't repeat. Tim?

TIM COOK: Yes, so Ben on some of the key components on LCDs and NAND flash, we expect a favorable cost environment. The DRAM market is entering a seasonally stronger demand period relative to where it's been, and we believe that price will recover from these historically low levels and so we see increases in this area. Hard drives, optical drives, and most other commodities are in supply/demand balance and we envision these trends following historical norms.

BEN REITZES: Okay. So I mean basically, though, it sounds like you guys may reprice or rethink about how you're pricing maybe with some of the transitions and you want to drive a lot of volume. Is there any change in the company's philosophy in terms of margin and volume or stay tuned?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, let me talk a little bit about what I would see beyond the September quarter for margin. As you know, we can't discuss future products, so the first part of your question that we're not able to answer today, we're delivering state of the art products at price points that our competitors can't match, which has resulted in market share gains in each of our products. We plan to continue this strategy and to deliver great value to our customers while making a reasonable margin, but not a margin so high as to leave an umbrella for our competitors. In addition, and one of the investments that we make is to introduce new products that initially cost more because they deliver an entirely new level of value to the customer. Then we ride the cost curves down with value engineering and volume manufacturing, leaving us far ahead of our competitors. We have some of these types of investments in front of us that I can't discuss with you today and we plan to continue to execute this strategy in the future. As we look beyond the September quarter, we would anticipate gross margins being about 30% in fiscal 2009. We are very confident in our new product pipeline, our growth opportunities and the decisions that we're making for our future.

BEN REITZES: Okay, thanks. And then my last thing is just I would like to ask it as respectfully as possible. A New York newspaper today obviously called into question some issues around Steve and obviously his health and we get a lot of questions about it. And I'm really sorry to ask because it's a very private matter, but would you mind addressing the situation and just making it so we can have your official statement? And I apologize in advance for having to ask the question.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, Steve loves Apple. He serves as the CEO at the pleasure of Apple's board and has no plans to leave Apple. Steve's health is a private matter.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Pacific Crest Securities, we'll hear from Andy Hargreaves.

ANDY HARGREAVES, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Hi. Can you touch on CapEx, jumped quite a bit in the quarter, just talk about what the spending was on and is the target still $1.25 billion for the year?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, our capital expenditures in the June quarter were $304 million. We spent $113 million in our retail stores and $191 million outside of our retail stores in our IT areas, facilities and some of our manufacturing. And we do anticipate CapEx for fiscal '08 being $1.2 billion, about $400 million in retail, and $800 million in the other parts of our business.

ANDY HARGREAVES: And then wonder if I could just ask about Apple TV real quick. Wondering if you can give us any clue or any indication on the number of video rentals or how the launch of that service has impacted hardware sales.

TIM COOK: We started shipping Apple TV, as you know, in February, and we've been pleased with the sales that we've had. However, the Apple TV remains a hobby, as we call it, because it's not -- this business is not nearly as large as the Macintosh business or the music business and does not have the potential of the iPhone business. However, we are very excited about the potential of it and continue to invest in it.

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Needham, we'll hear from Charles Wolf.

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO: Yes, I have a quick question. What was the division of iPod sales between the US and international?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Charlie, that's not something that we specifically break out, but I can tell you that our iPod sales in the United States grew 10% and we grew 15% outside the United States.

CHARLES WOLF: So I should be able to solve for it. Thank you. Thanks, Peter.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Piper Jaffray, we'll hear from Gene Munster.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Hi, good afternoon. Obviously the iPhone's also a good launch and seem to be lines across the country and we're down to 2% of your stores have iPhones. Can you give us any sort of expectations beyond you're doing your best to refill the channel in terms of when we should expect to see a little bit broader inventory?

TIM COOK: Gene, it's Tim. The response to the new iPhone 3G has been stunning. As Peter said in his opening comments, we sold our 1 millionth iPhone just three days after the launch, and to contrast that, it took us 74 days to sell 1 million of the first generation iPhone and almost two years to sell our 1 millionth iPod. And so we are thrilled with what we see. As you say, there are a number of stockouts. This is a factor of the overwhelming demand. I am very pleased with the production ramp, very pleased with the trajectory of it. We're shipping units as fast as we can and obviously we're trying to catch the demand and serve our customers. We are confident enough in the production ramp that we will be launching about 20 additional countries on August 22, which would bring our total to over 40, and we still expect to be selling the iPhones in other 70 countries later this calendar year.

GENE MUNSTER: Would you be launching some of those other countries if you expected stock outage in the US?

TIM COOK: As I said, I like what I'm seeing in the production ramp and I'm confident in our ability to supply. I'm not going to predict when supply will meet demand. We've been selling the phone for 10 days and so this is a very difficult thing to do with this level of data.

GENE MUNSTER: One final question, can you remind us the accounting on the iPod Touch? The accounting treatment?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Gene, we recognize revenue on all iPods when we ship them.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. So why is the phone accounted differently than the iPod Touch?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Because we are giving away to current customers at no charge, new software applications and update to software features, when we make them available, and we are not doing that with iPods or Macs.

GENE MUNSTER: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you very much. Just wonder a question about your go-forward gross margin target of 30% of fiscal '09. Obviously that's quite a bit lower than what you've seen over the past couple of years. I'm trying to understand if that's more about pricing or mix or what else is causing such a steep drop-off.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: David, as I said a few minutes ago, we're delivering state of the art products at price points that our competitors can't match, which has resulted in market share gains in each of our product areas. And we plan to continue this strategy into the future and deliver great value to customers. And as a result of that, I would see our gross margins being about 30% in fiscal 2009 and I can't get into you what we have in our new product pipeline, because we don't talk about future products.

DAVID BAILEY: I guess I'm just trying to get a better handle on the fact that - you've always been delivering the same type of products at those price points, with gross margins,a few hundred basis points higher than that, you know, few hundred basis points higher than that, so what's the change?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We have some investments in front of us that I can't discuss with you today, where we are going to be delivering state of the art new products that our competitors just aren't going to be able to match and as a result, I would see gross margins being about 30%, and that's all I can tell you at this point.

DAVID BAILEY: Okay.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, Peter. I wanted to go back on the guidance issue for a second. Over the last three years, Peter, you've generally guided from June to September to have revenues up 3% and EPS varied a little bit, but down 18.9%. In reality, the results that you've delivered have been order of magnitude -- and those are sequential changes. Revenue has been up 10%, and EPS has been in fact not down, but up 9%. In each of those periods in September, you particularly have price-downs, or reduction in prices. You always have back-to-school transitions. The only difference I heard this quarter was a reversal of the deferred at the contract manufacturer. So still trying to understand what's different this quarter in terms of how this is going to play out, where in fact you're going to deliver September results that are above where you've guided from and historically that's exactly what's happened over the past three years. If you could comment on that, please.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Keith, we gave you guidance that we have reasonable confidence in achieving and we have a process we go through to evaluate what we think demand for our products will be and what we can make and what it's going to cost us and we give you guidance accordingly. I have guided revenue up this quarter on 5% from where we ended the June quarter. We are confident in our business. We believe that we'll sell more Macs in the September quarter than we did in the June quarter, but we do see our gross margin being down and I've told you the three reasons that I think are primarily going to drive that.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Well, let me ask a follow-up then to Mr. Bailey's question. When you were describing why gross margins would be down 30 -- sorry, to 30% in the out quarters, I heard you mention price a couple different times during your prepared and follow-on remarks. It sounds like what you're suggesting is in addition to mix, though, is price is going to be one of the things that you think leads the gross margins down because in fact you haven't been to those gross margins in over eight quarters.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Again, I can't talk about future products. That certainly could be the case and we also plan to continue to announce state of the art products that deliver incredible value to our customers. And we're very excited about what we have in our new product pipeline.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. I'll leave it there. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Cross Research, we'll hear from Shannon Cross.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Hi, good afternoon. Maybe just -- hello? Can you hear me?

NANCY PAXTON: We can.

SHANNON CROSS: Oh, okay, good. Sorry. I'm on an iPhone 3G, so I hope you can. Anyway, looking at the -- moving past the gross margin, maybe we could talk a little bit about operating margin. Peter, if you can give some idea of if you're focused on running the business for gross margin or actually for the gross profit dollars that fall off of it, therefore there's still substantial room for upside to EPS, even if gross margin gets compressed a bit.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shannon, I think as I look back, I think the management team has made excellent decisions with our products and how we've managed the business. With the guidance that we've provided to you today, we expect our top line for fiscal '08 to be $32.4 billion, up 35% year-over-year, from fiscal '07 which grew to $24 billion. We're just getting started really with the iPhone. In the September quarter, we think we're going to sell more than we ever have. So I think we've run the business very, very well, plan to continue to do that in the future. We're investing in the business, but we've been providing leverage from an OpEx perspective for some period of time now and would hope to do that in the future as well.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, and then just one question, because obviously with the accounting on the iPhone, the cash is going to become substantially more important. So can you talk a little bit about use of cash, management stocks on cash? Obviously you've been -- relatively small return you're getting right now on your cash.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't have a change in our position to share with you today.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Moskowitz, JPMorgan.

MARK MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, thank you, good afternoon. A few questions. Peter, I want to get back to David and Keith's question regarding the commentary on margins going forward. Is it safe to say, then, you're kind of suggesting without announcing your new products that Apple could introduce a more flexible pricing structure across the product lines in terms of not having the reputation of being the high price configuration provider of old, maybe being a lot more volume-driven, particularly on the Mac side of the house?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Again, I can't get into what we'll do in the future, but as I look at our products today, I think we are incredibly well priced from a competitive perspective. You know, with the iPod, we start at $49 and go up to about $400 with many choices in between for customers. And I think we are as competitive today on the Mac as we've ever been in the 12 years that I've been with Apple. So I'm very comfortable with our pricing.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Okay, and then, Tim, could you help us understand how we should think about the longer-term trajectory of your retail footprint overseas, over time, I think you said 10,300 store fronts. Where do you see that going by the end of this year and next?

TIM COOK: Yes, that's obviously the channel numbers.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Right.

TIM COOK: Just to clarify for everyone, not our own retail store. I see it continuing to increase because as we grow our market share, the Mac will need more coverage. It doesn't need the amount of coverage that iPod has, which has over 45,000, nor the amount that the phone will eventually have, but I do envision it continuing to grow.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: And then just lastly, I know it's very early here with the 3G iPhone, but there seems to be a lot of buzz within the corporate IT houses regarding the phone. Can you maybe give us a sense in terms of what level of discussion has been stirred so far in terms of folks that want to fold in not only the iPhone, but maybe Macs and other corporate environment?

TIM COOK: On the iPhone, there's been a significant interest. As you know, about a third of the Fortune 500 were in our iPhone 2.0 beta program, and we've got very large enterprises such, just to name a few, Kraft, First American, Disney, Genentech, Oracle, and the Southern Company, who are all beginning to deploy iPhones within their organization. Also, there have been companies that are writing applications, and you can see some of these on the App Store, such as cellsource.com and Oracle with Oracle business Indicators, and there are many, many more enterprises that are writing custom apps for their particular enterprise, and so we see significant excitement. Many of the carrier partners, as you probably know, have very large sales forces to call on these companies direct and they are very excited about pushing and evangelizing the iPhone in these accounts.

MARK MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Katie Huberty from Morgan Stanley.

KATIE HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, Peter. I understand this is a low base, but inventory did increase 50% sequentially, so is it fair to assume that that number normalized post the 3G launch?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Katie, the increase in inventories related primarily to a buy ahead we did to -- largely related to the launch of the iPhone 3G.

KATIE HUBERTY: And then profits at Apple stores grew faster than revenue over the past few quarters. How are you thinking about continuing to flow that margin upside, the bottom line versus reinvesting in either store layout or resources to support what should be higher traffic post the 3G phone launch?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, to date, Ron has I think really done, and his team, a wonderful job of giving customers a great experience in the store and traffic just continues to go up. Again, we were up over 10 million people year-over-year to 32 million in just 211 stores that were open on average. We're opening -- we'll open this year about 45 stores. Ron is remodeling some of the early stores that we opened to give customers a better experience, so we are making investments in the stores, and he, with the revenue growth, has been able to provide some leverage, as you point out, along the way.

KATIE HUBERTY: Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Katie. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Jeff Fidacaro with Merrill Lynch.

JEFF FIDACARO, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, Peter. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the margin impact, maybe in the September quarter from the iPhone launch. In other words, what cannot be deferred along with the handset revenues?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We incur our OpEx in engineering, sales and marketing related to the iPhone currently, while recognizing the revenue over -- and product costs over a two-year period of time. And we do have launch expenses for the iPhone 3G that are built into the September quarter and that's provided for in the $1.27 billion guidance that I gave you.

JEFF FIDACARO: Okay, and if you could talk about also the rollout into different geographies. Sounds like you're doing another 20 countries by August 22. Do you intend to do them in blocks, or is it going to be more linear after that to get up to the 70 number?

TIM COOK: The August 22nd one is a block, as I indicated. And we would prefer to do more in blocks, but we'll likely have some of each as the year goes on to close out the year greater than 70.

JEFF FIDACARO: Okay, and just one last follow-up. On the App Store, expectations here going forward, I know your iTunes has been generally run as breakeven or better. You're getting a 30% split of the application revenue. Clearly this has done well over just the initial launch. Just wanted to get your thoughts and your expectations as far as contributing to profits.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We're thinking about the App Store in the same way that we think about the iTunes store. While it will generate some revenues, it will be a small profit generator. And just with the iTunes store making iPods more attractive, we think the app store will make the iPhone and iPod Touch more attractive to customers. We'll hopefully see an indirect return by selling more iPhones and iPod Touches.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Jeff. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll hear from Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. I have a few questions, please. Firstly, can you comment at all, or do you care to comment on what's baked into your guidance around the health of the US consumer? You're still doing phenomenally well in your stores, but if we look sequentially, Mac units grew 67% last quarter. They grew 44% this quarter in your stores against a much easier compare. We look at your store traffic. It was actually down sequentially from 33.7 million to 32. It looks like it's typically up between Q2 and Q3. Do these indicators mean anything to you and do you, do you have anything baked into your forecast for fiscal Q4 that incorporates a view about the health of the US consumer?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Toni, we're going to leave economic commentary to others, but we didn't see any obvious impact to the business in the June quarter, and I've talked a little bit about in my prepared remarks just how we did at the company level, but also in the US, in our retail stores, with our iPods and our education unit, which had the best June quarter in our history. We're certainly aware of the economic environment and we've considered it among other factors in preparing our guidance.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then secondly, just in terms of the iPhone ramp, you mentioned that this was really a demand issue. Can you confirm that there have been no production or component issues to date? And if there haven't been, I guess the question is why wouldn't you have pushed the launch date out one or two weeks so you wouldn't have created what appears to be widespread stockouts, frustration among customers that they can't get it, et cetera? Was it just beyond the three standard deviation expectation for demand initially or so -- A, can you confirm that there hasn't been a production or component shortage issue to date? And then, B, if that hasn't been the case, why wouldn't a business practice suggested that waiting to ramp capacity and launching in a way that could have been more satisfying to more customers have been prudent?

TIM COOK: Toni, as I said before, the demand has been staggering, almost in every country that we've shipped in, and on the manufacturing ramp, it is right on schedule. We're very pleased with the trajectory of it, and that -- the confidence that that gives us to -- gives us confidence to launch in 20 additional countries in August.

TONI SACCONAGHI: I guess the question is why do you have such confidence that you can fill demand in 20 countries when you weren't able to fill demand in 22 countries at initial launch for more than two days?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm not predicting the demand. Demand is very difficult to predict with a new product of this sort, that has a new price point and it's a revolutionary product. But we do have confidence over the supply and the confidence over supply that allows us to continue to expand.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then the final question I had was just revisiting this gross margin, the gross margin commentary you made about going forward. My impression is that the iPhone is the significantly higher gross margin product than your overall business. And obviously that's going to ramp and all else being equal, should push up margins. I understand your commentary about '09 and you mentioned the word "umbrella" and you didn't want to create an umbrella, so I think the only inference is that are you going to be incrementally more aggressive on pricing on select products, but as we think about that over time, shouldn't the upward pressure in your gross margins later in '09 or beyond '09 be positive due to both the iPhone plus the scale economies that you had talked about?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Tony, couple things. First of all, you know, I wouldn't rule that in or out. And I'm not going to make comments beyond '09. As regards the iPhone, we don't discuss specific product margins. However, the iPhone is currently a small part of our total revenue and gross margin as a result of subscription accounting. And with the introduction of the iPhone 3G and our authorizing carriers in over 70 countries, we expect to sell significantly more iPhones this quarter and in the future than, than we have and we're very happy with the margins in our new model.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From RBC Capital Markets, we'll hear from Mike Abramsky.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks very much. I guess they say that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. We've seen that already with a number of iPhone knock-offs that are proliferating, about to proliferate. I would imagine that it's going to be a very crowded fall season with a lot of choices for consumers both in North America and outside, as they vie for similar kind of user experiences that you've been able to do. What key sustainable advantages do you feel that you'll have in that kind of environment to sustain the kind of demand that you've seen for iPhone and support the kind of plans that you're expecting for expansion?

TIM COOK: We think that software is really the key ingredient for a great mobile experience, and we believe that we are many years ahead of the competition in this area. And so we welcome any competition as long as it doesn't step on our IP.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Mike, and I would add to that that we're very excited about our App Store. And as I said in my prepared remarks, in just a bit over a week, there are now over 900 applications available to customers and in just over a week, customers on iPhone and iPod Touch have already downloaded over 25 million applications.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Do you see this IT issue heating up later? How aggressive will you be in enforcing, for example, your multitouch patent over what is obviously going to be globally a number of similar initiatives from other handset makers?

TIM COOK: We'll be very aggressive.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: How underpenetrated do you think this iPhone market -- excuse me, the smart phone market as relates to iPhone is globally? This is obviously a product that does require a fairly high cost commitment from a number of users. We can't ignore -- we're not talking about economy, I recognize, but we certainly can't ignore the pressures globally. What evidence do you see that this market can support a sustained level of the kind of growth that you've experienced out of the gate for this iPhone opportunity?

TIM COOK: Well, as I said before, we're not predicting units other than the prediction that we made some time ago about this year, which we are extremely confident in achieving. But we believe that we are growing the market and many people really didn't have the full view of what a phone could do until we announced the iPhone. And so we think that there will be a shift in the phone industry over time to more and more people wanting a smart phone versus a standard voice phone.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: And would you say that you don't see the kind of cost commitment that is in front of people to get those new -- to get the things that they are desiring being a head wind to market growth over the next foreseeable future?

TIM COOK: We did see it being a head wind as the $400 price. As we shared sometime ago, about 50% of the people that we surveyed told us that they would have bought an iPhone had it not been for the price. And so with the change in business model, which gets the iPhone to a price of $199 in the US and a price similar to that in local currencies on specific tariffs outside the US in many countries, we believe we're addressing that key concern and that the market for the iPhone will expand dramatically.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: And just lastly, are you reaffirming your 10 million CY '08 iPhone goal?

TIM COOK: We're very confident in achieving the 10 million for calendar year '08.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mike. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: From Oppenheimer and Company, we'll hear from Yair Reiner.

YAIR REINER, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO: Hi. Quick question first on the back to school promotion. Could you walk us through the accounting of that and how you account for the iPods that are given away and what happens to the, to the ASPs?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. In our retail stores, for example, if you, if you a qualifying student and you buy a qualifying Mac and an iPod, we will send you a rebate for the cost of the iPod and, again, that's a qualifying Mac and iPod. We account for the rebate as a reduction in revenue and it is done proportionally to the Mac and the iPod in proportion to the revenue related to the Mac and the iPod sale.

YAIR REINER: Got it. And on iPods, ASP's obviously down quite a bit in the quarter because of the higher Shuffle mix. Is this the mix that we should look at moving forward and how do you see the overall iPod business developing now that it's clearly getting some competition at least from the iPhone?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We don't provide guidance at the product level, we were very happy with our iPhone sales in the June quarter, we grew 10% in the US, 15% internationally, gained share internationally, which we were very happy with. As regards to the iPhones, it's hard to precisely tell, but there likely was some element of cannibalization, and our view is that if there is going to be iPod cannibalization, we want it to be from the iPhone.

YAIR REINER: Got it. Just a final question on the gross margin guidance for the following quarter, understand the comments about new product innovation, I don't quite understand why that would impact gross margins rather than OpEx and the R&D line. If you can help us think through that, it would be great.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We're -- we have been introducing state of the art new products that have technologies and features that our competition just can't match, and when we do that early in our introduction, our costs are higher and then we work to bring costs down over time with value engineering and with volume manufacturing.

YAIR REINER: So just to be clear, this implies that these new products will actually be shipping or being built in this quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I can't get into our new product pipeline, but I have told you regarding the September quarter that one of the reasons that we see gross margin being down sequentially is because of a product transition, yes.

YAIR REINER: Okay, thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: With American Technology, we'll hear from Shaw Wu.

SHAW WU, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY: Okay, thanks. Just a quick question, I guess perhaps for Tim. Just on the Japan business, looks like it somewhat regressed this quarter after some improvement over the last two quarters. Just any comments there in terms of how you feel about that business? And then just to revisit the iPod ASP question, I understand that your back-to-school promotion definitely has some impact there, but despite that, it seems like it was down a little bit more than expected. Is that, is that -- is it a function of mix or is it -- would you attribute that to the back-to-school promotion? Thanks.

TIM COOK: Shaw, I'm very happy with how our Japan subsidiary is doing. They are off to a great start in fiscal 2007 in each of the first three quarters, they have exceeded the company's overall revenue growth rate. And if you have noticed that this past quarter, they grew at 40% year-over-year versus the company's growth at 38%. And I think that's particularly good when you think about how the markets there are doing. In the PC industry, IDC was predicting a 5% year-over-year increase for the market. The MacIntosh was up 23% in units, so up four to five times. Our share improved year-over-year from about 4% to 5% and in iPods, our share grew about 10 points year-over-year, up to 56% in May according to BCN. And so we feel great about how we're doing in Japan. It's quite the turnaround from where we were doing in 2006.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shaw, in your follow-up on your iPod ASP question, it was down sequentially really as a result of the full quarter impact of the iPod Shuffle price decrease, the back-to-school promotion, while we started it in the first part of June really will have the biggest impact over the summer months, so that didn't play a particularly large role within that. And as we said, we're very happy with the elasticity that we've seen on the iPod Shuffle and think the trade-off between ASP and units was a good one.

SHAW WU: Okay. Thanks for the color.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shaw. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks, or the Podcast on the iTunes store, a webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone. The numbers to the telephone replay are 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820. And the confirmation code is 4120259. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions, and Joan is at 408-974-4570. And I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks, again, for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We do thank everyone for your participation. Have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080728e47l0018p
  


 HD
 Q2  2008 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,820 words
   PD
23 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to the Apple, Incorporated's second quarter 2008 quarterly results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, APPLE INC.: Thank you, good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer. He'll be joined by Apple's COO, Tim Cook, and Treasurer, Gary Wipfler for Q and A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today may consist of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, earnings and future products. Actual results or trends may differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's form 10-K for 2007, the form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates. With that, I would turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory comments.

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP - FINANCE, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy and thank you for joining us. We are very pleased to report the highest March quarter revenue and earnings in Apple history. Revenue in the March quarter was $7.51 billion, an increase of more than $2.2 billion over the previous March quarter's revenue of $5.26 billion. The tremendous growth in the quarter was driven by very strong demand for Macs, higher revenue from iPod and iTunes and the continued popularity of the iPhone. Operating margin for the quarter better than expected at 17.5%, primarily due to the higher than anticipated revenue and gross margin. Net income was $1.05 billion, which was up 36% over the prior March quarter's results and translated to earnings per share of $1.16.

Before going through the details of the March quarter, I'd like to give you a few data points indicating just how exceptionally well Apple performed. Revenue growth in the March quarter accelerated to 43% year-over-year, which is more than twice the 21% growth rate we achieved in the March quarter last year. We saw healthy growth in all regions, with the U.S. sales growing 40%, and international sales growing 47%. Sales in our 208 retail stores, most of which are in the U.S., were extremely strong, growing 74% year-over-year, driven in part by traffic of 33.7 million visitors, up 57% from the year ago quarter. In the retail stores, 50% of the CPUs we sold were to customers who were new to the Mac, adding growth to our platform. And finally, our U.S. education business generated Mac unit growth of 35% year-over-year, its highest growth rate in any quarter in the last 8 years.

I'd now like to talk about our Mac products and services which represented 59% of total quarterly revenue. We're extremely pleased to have shipped 2.29 million Macs, just shy of the record number of Macs we sold this past holiday quarter, and representing 51% growth over the prior March quarter's results. This is a 3.5 times the overall PC market rate of growth for March quarter, based on the latest forecast published by IDC, up from the 2 to 3 times market growth rate we had been reporting almost every quarter for the last three years. Sales of desktops grew 37%, driven by strong demand for the iMac as well as increased sales of Mac Pro, which we updated in January. Sales of portables grew 61%, driven by continued strong demand for MacBook and the MacBook Pros, both of which were refreshed during the quarter, as well as the successful launch of the MacBook Air. MacBook Air represents a new portable category for Apple, and customers have responded very well to its breakthrough design and ultraportability. We ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.

Now I'd like to discuss our music products and services, which accounted for 36% of total revenue during the quarter. We sold 10.6 million iPods, an increase of 1% from year ago quarter, and we experienced about the same seasonal decline between the December and March quarters as we did last year. IPod revenue grew 8% year over year from higher ASPs in every geographic segment due to the success of the iPod Touch. We continue to be very pleased with customer response to the iPod Touch, and believe the introduction of the software development kit in late June will broaden this appeal even further, as great new applications are developed. After declining 17% year-over-year in the December quarter, Shuffle sales were also down significantly in the March quarter, but the weekly rate of sales improved considerably following the February 19th price reduction.

We continue to achieve our objectives of maintaining our high MP3 market share in the U.S. and gaining share internationally. Our share of the U.S. MP3 market was 73%, according to the latest data published by NPD. Outside the U.S., we gained share in nearly every market we have data for, based on the latest information from GFK and BCN. We began and ended the quarter within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPod channel inventory.

Sales for iTunes were very strong for the quarter enter and NPD has reported we have surpassed Wal-Mart to become the largest music retailer in the U.S. The iTunes store has over 50 million customers and over 85% share of the U.S. share of the market for legally purchased and downloaded music, based on the latest information from Nielsen SoundScan. Our movie rental service has been well received by customers and we have also just begun selling TV shows in Germany and will continue to expand video content internationally.

We are very pleased with iPhone momentum and customer feedback continues to be outstanding. We remain confident in achieving our goal of selling 10 million iPhones in calendar 2008. We sold 1.7 million iPhones during the March quarter and expanded our sales presence to include Austria and Ireland. Total revenue recognized during the quarter from sales of iPhones, iPhone accessories and payments from carriers was $378 million. Total deferred revenue from iPhone and Apple TV was $1.93 billion at the end of the March quarter compared to $1.44 billion at the end of the December quarter.

Developer response to the iPhone's 2.0 beta software we announced on March 6 has been tremendous. Over 200,000 developers have signed up and downloaded the software development kit. Interest in the iPhone enterprise beta program has also been off the charts. We received applications from over one third of the Fortune 500 and over 400 higher ed institutions. Hundreds of companies and institutions have been accepted into the program and more are being added each week. Because we announced these specific new features to be included in the iPhone 2.0 release, and plan to provide them to iPhone customers as a free upgrade in late June, we will delay the start of revenue recognition for all iPhones sold on or after our March 6 announcement date until the iPhone 2.0 software is delivered. The revenue and cost of sales associated with these iPhones will be recognized ratably over the remaining terms of their respective 24-month estimated lives. Revenue recognition of handsets sold prior to March 6 and payments from carriers has not changed as a result of our announcement.

I would now like to turn to the Apple retail stores, which had another terrific quarter, with revenue growing 74% year-over-year to $1.45 billion. The store sold 458,000 Macs during the quarter, an increase of 67% year-over-year. We opened four stores during the quarter to end with 208. With an average of 205 stores open during the quarter, average revenue per store was $7.1 million compared to $4.8 million the year ago quarter, an increase of 48%. Operating profits doubled year-over-year to $334 million from $164 million. A primary objective in our stores has been helping people to get more out of their Macs, and the stores delivered 580,000 one-hour personal training sessions during the quarter. We opened our 15th store in the United Kingdom during the March quarter, and look forward to opening our first stores in Australia, China and Switzerland in the coming months. We expect to open about 45 stores during fiscal 2008 and continue to be very confident in the investments we are making in the stores and the asset we are building.

Total company gross margin was 32.9%, which was a little stronger than our guidance due to a more favorable commodity environment, higher overall revenue and a weaker dollar. Operating expenses were $1.16 billion, including $112 million in stock based compensation expense. OI&E was $162 million, below our guidance due to the lower interest rate environment. The tax rate for the quarter was about 29%, below the expected 32%, due to higher foreign earnings and lower interest income. We expect the tax rate for the second half of fiscal 2008 to be 31%. We generated $1 billion in cash during the quarter, ending with $19.4 billion. Cash flow from operations was $1.2 billion. In the first half of the fiscal 2008, we generated $4 billion in cash from $2.6 billion in net income. The difference being driven largely by the iPhone and strong working capital management.

Looking ahead to the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, we are targeting revenue of about $7.2 billion or approximately 33% growth over the prior June quarter. We expect the total quarterly costs of non-stock cash based compensation to be approximately $135 million. We expect gross margins to be about 33%, reflecting approximately $20 million related to stock based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $1.185 billion, including about $115 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OI&E to decline to about $115 million, due to the impact of recent interest rate cuts and we expect the tax rate to be about 31%. We expect to generate EPS of about a $1.

In closing, we're extremely proud of our growth in business performance in the March quarter. Our 51% Mac sales increase is the strongest quarterly growth rate we've generated in almost two decades, and 3.5 times the market rate of growth. We're very excited about the delivery of the iPhone 2.0 software in last June and the vast potential for compelling solutions that our SDK opens up for the developer community. We remain very confident in our business and continue to be excited about the businesses in our pipeline. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Our first question will come from Ben Reitzes with Lehman Brothers.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks a lot. Nice performance and revenue. Wanted to ask you a little bit about gross margin. 32.9 was really good, but I was wondering if you had thought actually more could flow to the bottom line and what maybe some of the negative cross currents were. And then also what gives you the confidence of 33% the next quarter? Just a little bit more on that would be helpful. Thanks. And then I just have a follow-up on iPhone.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Ben, maybe I'll let Tim make a few comments about the commodity environment and then let me talk more broadly about gross margin in the March quarter and what we expect in June.

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Great. Ben, commodity pricing in both DRAM and the NAND flash market hit historically low levels during the March quarter. We would expect pricing in the current quarter to remain favorable and we folded that into our guidance. We believe that the LCD market is near our supply/demand balance will have relatively stable pricing. Hard drives, optical drives, and most other commodities are in a supply/demand balance and we would expect these commodities to follow historical pricing trends.

BEN REITZES: Okay. And in terms of the quarter, did anything go against you, though, that was unexpected? In the gross margin line or was there an impact from the lower price of the Shuffles that maybe some of us didn't anticipate?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, it's Peter. Let me continue on and I'll address that and talk a little bit about the June quarter as well. As we commented in last quarter's call, we expected gross margin to decline by about 2.7%. We actually exceeded our guidance this quarter by 90 basis points. The gross margin only reduced by 1.8%. And the better than expected results were primarily due to the favorable commodity environment that Tim discussed, higher revenue in the quarter, and a weaker dollar. The sequential decline from Q1 was primarily due to Leopard entering its second quarter of sales. As we mentioned on last quarter's call and as we've seen in the past, the new OS has significantly more sales in its debut quarter. The change in Leopard and the other Apple software sequentially accounted for over 80% of the gross margin decline that we saw, as expected. Other factors affecting the gross margin in the quarter were the Shuffle price change. We took several international price reductions as a result of a change in currency market. Higher mix of iTunes, which has a lower gross margin, and a sequential decline in the revenues from the holiday for the quarter. These factors were offset by favor valuable component pricing allowing us to achieve a gross margin of 32.9%, which was ahead of our expected 32.

BEN REITZES: That was pretty detailed. In terms of the iPhone and I'll cede the floor. With regard to the iPhone we've noticed less availability, especially as we got towards the end of the quarter and recently and is there anything -- and then they were widely expecting new products but is there anything you can say that will give us confidence that you could grow that segment sequentially given the current amount of supply out there? Is there anything you're worried about and whatnot on the iPhones side in terms of shortages or should we assume you have a handle on that and can grow that business sequentially?

TIM COOK: Ben, it's Tim. We're confident in hitting the 10 million for the year. That would be the main point. In terms of the shortages you referenced, we expected iPhone to decline more on a sequential basis than it did. We beat our unit expectations. As a result, as we got to the end of the quarter we started to experience some stock out. At this point, both inventory in our stores and our channel inventories are currently low. Our U.S. stores have experienced more stock outs, or relatively more and we believe the reason is that there are more phones being bought there with the intention of unlocking, which remains a significant number.

BEN REITZES: Okay. And you don't want to clarify that number at this time?

TIM COOK: I can't clarify it. It's not that I don't want to. It's that it's very difficult to come up with a very precise estimate of it. But we do believe the number continues to be significant. And our view continues to be that this is a proxy for the worldwide demand of the phone. And our focus is very much on rolling out to more GO's and we're on target to roll out into more countries in Europe and to inter Asia later in the year.

BEN REITZES: Great. Thanks so much, guys.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Yes, we'll move to Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest.

WILLIAM FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST: Yes, wanted to ask a couple of channel questions if I could. Could you guys give more color on the direct versus indirect mix and also could you give us any update on where you are with the expansion of the Best Buy footprint?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, the direct sales in the quarter were 53% and that was up from 49 in the year ago quarter.

TIM COOK: And in terms of Best Buy, we ended with a little over 400 stores, which was to our plan and we continued to target to be at 600 in the summer. And the roll out is going extremely well, and we're very, very happy with it.

WILLIAM FEARNLEY: And then a follow-up on education, if I could. With education, can you delineate between student buy programs and institutional buying in education, what you experienced this quarter and what you will experience in the upcoming quarter.

TIM COOK: The numbers that Peter quoted in the preamble, we were up 35% in both institutional and individual buying was relatively strong. The quarter that we're now in is a big K-12 quarter, and back to school is more of a higher education quarter. I wouldn't want to predict exact numbers, but as Peter had mentioned, the 35% is the highest growth rate we've seen in ed in eight years. And we recently learned that we surpassed Dell last year in the portable market share for higher education. So we have significant momentum in this area.

WILLIAM FEARNLEY: There's been a lot of chatter about state and local government spending. Are you guys happy with the institutional part of the education business?

TIM COOK: I'm always worried about budgets and will continue to worry about budgets, but the results that we've seen to date with 35% increase year-over-year, we have not seen any issue today.

WILLIAM FEARNLEY: Appreciate it. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll move on to Mike Abramsky with RBC Capital.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL: Can you qualify the reasons for the delay of the start of revenue recognition on the iPhone and what your thinking was there? Based on the 2.0 release and also what kind of impact we should be -- how we should think about relaying that into our iPhone numbers?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. We are doing this as I said, in my prepared remarks, because we announced the specific new features that will be included in the iPhone 2.0 software that we plan to provide for customers for free who purchased after our announcement on March 6. So we will delay revenue recognition on phones sold between March 6th and the date of the delivery of the software. Once we deliver the software, we will resume revenue recognition of the phones on what we sold between March 6th and that date and begin to recognize as we had in the past iPhone revenue on a go-forward basis. As I said in my prepared remarks, this does not impact phones sold prior to March 6th or payments from carriers.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. So really what we're looking at is just the exclusion of hardware revenue next quarter, really, from iPhone.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Until the software is delivered.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. And it just on the iPhone, with regard to your 10 million guidance, can you talk a little bit about how important either 3G might be to that or how important at least the timing of some of your pending products that you're referring to in your press release and on your excitement around the iPhone, kind of weighs into that 10 million? Based on current momentum.

TIM COOK: We don't comment on new products but I would just reiterate that we're confident with hitting the 10 million, and obviously, a part of that is rolling out to more geographies. We've been working very hard at this and feel confident we'll be able to roll out in more places to Europe and inner Asia during the year.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: And does that forecast include some now going-forward assumption in your part of an unlocked phone percentage?

TIM COOK: The unit number includes phones of all types. Locked and unlocked.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. And then final question. Just you haven't said anything in your call about sort of economic headwinds. It's obviously something people are focusing on. It seems you're benefiting from resistance to some of those headwinds and also share gain. Any commentary you can offer in addition to the comments you've made that help us understand some of the kind of sustained drivers of that?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Mike, it's Peter. We're going to leave economic commentary to others, and we're focused on managing our business, which performed exceptionally well in the March quarter. I credit it to just outstanding innovative products that drove amazing results. The U.S. business performed quite well in March. Our revenue grew 40%. And this growth rate was twice last year's March quarter U.S. growth rate of 20, and faster than we grew in the December quarter of 27%. Mac sales in the U.S. were up 51%. And traffic through our stores were up 12 million people year-over-year. We only have 208 stores. So we remain very confident in our business and in our strategy, and we'll continue to invest in hardware and software products to delight our customers. We read the same things that you do, but I provided guidance for the June quarter, which has revenue growing at 33%. And again, that is an acceleration from the rate we saw last June by about 10 points.

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mike. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Yes. We will move to David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you very much. I was wondering, did you give a date on when you're expecting to deliver the 2.0 software for the iPhone and could you help us understand what impact that has on gross margin, if any?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: David, what we've said is we intent to deliver the iPhone 2.0 software in late June, and I've included the delay in revenue recognition and the 33% gross margin that I've given you for the quarter. This affects iPhone handset sales only between March 6 and when we deliver the software, and it does not impact phones sold prior to March 6th or payments from carriers.

DAVID BAILEY: But it is fair to say it does have a negative impact on gross margin during that period?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we will not recognize revenue until we deliver the software. And so that has an impact.

DAVID BAILEY: And just on your starts for the June quarter you have revenue down I think 4% quarter over quarter and typically it's up. Is there any particular area that you expect to be subseasonal in the next quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me talk a little bit about it. We're guiding to $7.2 billion, which again is a 33% increase from the year ago quarter, and is an acceleration of about 10 points from what we saw last June when we grew 24%. We factored several things into our thinking. First, our Mac channel inventory this past quarter did increase by about 60,000 in the March quarter, as an result of the MacBook Air launch and accelerated sales velocity. Second, we will not begin recognition of new iPhone sales until we deliver the iPhone 2.0 software in late June as I discussed. Third, we expect a sequential decrease in iPod sales as we've seen in the last couple of years, so nothing new there. And fourth, we'll see the full quarter impact of the iPod Shuffle and some international price reductions that we took in February. So that's what went into our thinking, but again, I couldn't be happier with the performance of the business. I think the guidance we're giving is very strong and would just end by saying again it's a growth rate that is faster than what we saw in the year ago quarter.

DAVID BAILEY: Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Yes, we will move to Kathy Huberty of Morgan Stanley.

KATHY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. I want to go back to the margin question because this is the first quarter that both gross and operating margins are down year on year since March 2006. Peter, do you now feel you need to reinvest some of the margin upside to address the growth opportunities internationally and in some of the new product categories such that year on year declines will be more of the norms going forward or was there something specific in the calendar first quarter that will go away later this year?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Katie, when we gave you guidance in January we gave guidance for 32% gross margin and we reported 32.9 so we did better than we thought. So our gross margin was better than what we had expected. We are continuing to come out with new innovative products. It is a competitive world. And we are thinking thoughtfully about driving both our top and bottom lines and continuing to gain market share in hall three of our product areas.

KATHY HUBERTY: Peter, quickly, are you still planning to open about half of the new stores internationally this year?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't know if it will be quite half but our international store openings will be greater this year than they were last as of the end of the quarter, we had 208 stores open in total, and 27 of those were outside the U.S. And we have increased our store opening forecast, this year a by little bit to 45 stores this year.

KATHY HUBERTY: Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Katie. Can we have the next question please.

OPERATOR: Richard Gardner with Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, Peter and Tim and everybody, actually. I wanted to ask about the gross margin. I'm still struggling to understand the gross margin that you reported in the quarter. I understand that you said that the decline in Leopard sales represented the biggest portion of that. But it looked like from the segment data that you reported that Leopard revenue was down about $100 million sequentially perhaps so that would be about a point of impact on the gross margin sequentially and given the price cut you did on Shuffle it seems that at most was another point impact on the gross margin. And yet since October, we've had DRAM and NAND pricing down 60 to 70% or more, and panel pricing has been pretty favorable as well. I was wondering if there was anything about the timing of when you procured the components that went into the systems that you built in Q1 that had an impact on the gross margins. In other words, was a lot of the NAND and DRAM that went into the products procured in the December quarter? If that's the case, should we expect to get some benefit as you procure a lot of NAND and DRAM now at much lower prices on the Q2 gross margin? Thank you.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rich, I'd like to make a couple comments about one of the first things you said and then Tim can address some of your later points. Our Leopard revenues in the December quarter as we talked about last in January was $170 million and they were just over $40 million in the March quarter. So together, a little over $210 million in the first half. Leopard is by far the best selling release in our history. But sequential decline in Leopard and also, iLife and iWork went into its third quarter were a bit greater than what you thought. So the impact of sequential gross margin decline therefore was a little bigger. And you also have to factor in in addition to the pricing actions that we took, lower sequential revenues, so we had less leverage on fixed costs and iTunes was a bigger mix of the business this quarter than last. And it has a lower gross margin as well. So there were a number of factors that played into the gross margin coming down, but again, it's better than what we expected it to be. We guided to 32 and achieved 32.9. Tim?

TIM COOK: I would just add, Rich, that the component advantages as you said were large during the quarter, and those really off set most of the lighter points that Peter talked about, which were the Shuffle price cut, the international price cuts that we did to adjust for currency, the higher mix of iTunes sales and the lower overall revenue and the effect it has on the structure. So we did receive significant benefit, particularly in the DRAM and NAND areas.

RICHARD GARDNER: And if I could follow up, Tim, with one other question.

TIM COOK: Yes.

RICHARD GARDNER: You mentioned that you said that you thought that memory pricing would continue to be very favorable in the June quarter. And yet, in the case of both DRAM and NAND, we're at very, very low levels and in many cases for many suppliers, close to cash cost. What gives you confidence I guess that the pricing will continue to be favorable here as we go into the second quarter and you and other companies start to procure more DRAM and NAND for a typical seasonal build.

TIM COOK: To be specific, favorable does not mean it goes lower than where it was in March. It means that we envision it trading in a fairly narrow trading range. And therefore, not increasing that much as we head into the quarter. But I don't believe that it will go lower because as you say, many people are already charging, certainly not absorbing all of their fixed costs in the current pricing.

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll move to Andrew Neff with Bear Stearns.

ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: One on OI&E, is there anything given the cash flows leading to a lower number, can you give us a sense in what the delay in the iPhone recognition meant to the current quarter, three, the tax rate, can you clarify whether it was down this quarter and is 31%, we use that going forward and last just in terms of just as you look at the consumer, obviously, you had great numbers. But are you seeing any impact to the consumer, are you taking any steps to address that? Are you just talking about consumer behavior in general?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Andy, I may not get all of your questions so if I forget one, remind me

ANDREW NEFF: I'll remember them.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll certainly come back to it. And I'm going to actually just probably go in reverse order. In terms of the consumer, we had a very good December quarter. And we had an amazing March quarter. In my prepared remarks, I wanted to go through some things that I thought would be helpful to you, and I think in a prior question, I did, but I'll go back through just a couple of them. And particularly in the U.S., our revenues in the United States grew 40% year-over-year. Mac shipments were up 51% in the U.S. Basically, at the level we saw around the world. And we saw about 34 million people in our 208 retail stores, most of which were in at the U.S. So our business performed exceptionally well in the March quarter across each of our customer segments. Including our retail stores.

In terms of the tax rate, we had been forecasting 32% for the year. With a higher mix of foreign earnings that we saw in the March quarter and lower interest income, really as a result of the rate environment, our tax rate for the year looks to be 31%. And so that's what we're forecasting for the June quarter. And for the September quarter. So in order to get the 31% for the year, we had an adjustment in the March quarter. That's why the tax rate was 29%. Then I know that you had an OI&E question which I'll led Gary answer. Was there one other before I turn it over to Gary?

ANDREW NEFF: The impact of the iPhone recognition in the current quarter, can you quantify what that was?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You have to make your estimates but we sold 1.7 million phones during the quarter. We made the announcement on March 6. You know what we sell the phones for, and we recognize the revenue over 24 months.

ANDREW NEFF: Just to clarify that, the number that you sold, that is still in the -I just want to make sure I understand it. So that after March 6, you still counted them as shipments, you just don't show the revenue is what you're saying.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Correct. Correct.

ANDREW NEFF: Gary, just on the OI&E.

GARY WIPFLER, TREASURER, APPLE INC.: Andy, I think you asked if there was anything else in the OI&E besides lower effective deals and the answer is no. We're basically investing in very short dated high quality highly liquid instruments, and as consequence, the yield on our portfolio has dropped a little bit, 4.9% a quarter ago. We exited that last quarter. We were earning about 3.9%. We expect it to go down a little bit more. There wasn't any material write-offs in the portfolio in regard to investment and auction rate securities and asset backed securities. We don't have any of those.

ANDREW NEFF: Do you know what you're going to do with all that cash?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Andy, no change to announce to you today.

ANDREW NEFF: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy, could we have the next question please?

OPERATOR: Yes, we'll move to Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: So you obviously do not recognize the revenue after March 6. Do you recognize the costs and expenses related to that? Is that correct?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, Gene, we'll delay the recognition of both the revenue and the product cost on the iPhone from the beginning on March 6 until we release the software. But we'll continue to expense our operating expenses around selling and advertising and engineering as period costs as we always have.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And then second, will you be charging for the upgrade for those who bought iPhones before March 6 for the version 2.0?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. As I said in my prepared remarks, we will be providing that software to the then-current iPhone customers for free.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. So then why, if everybody is going to get it for free, why are you deferring after March 6?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Because the customers that purchased the phone on or after March 6th presumably were aware of the software that we told them that we were going to come out with and that they were going to get it for free. And as a result of our announcement, the way you properly account for that is to defer the revenue. And that's what we're going to do.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Lastly, as far as the inventory in the U.S. Apple stores throughout this quarter, should we assume that it will start to creep back up throughout the quarter? Or should we just kind of assume it's going to be sporadic availability throughout the quarter?

TIM COOK: We're shipping product every day, Gene, but I'm not going to forecast the exact in stock levels of the stores. We've factored in our current thinking of supply/demand into the guidance.

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene, could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross from Cross Research.

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: A couple questions. First, could you talk a little bit about what we're seeing about the pricing of some of your European carrier partners with regard to the iPhone? Who bears the cost. Is this carrier driven? Any commentary you can make on that?

TIM COOK: Shannon, Tim. The carrier partners are free to price the iPhone has low as they wish. Beyond that I wouldn't comment on the specific commercial arrangements between us and the carriers because those are confidential.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And any thoughts on maintaining a 2.5 GI phone once the 3G is out.

TIM COOK: We don't comment on new products.

SHANNON CROSS: Sorry. Okay. Thought I would try. Final question though is on the channel. Because obviously you Mac sales are quite strong. Can you talk a little bit about where you're seeing the strength in the channel? Obviously you're expanding a bit more on your stores but you know from a CES standpoint or consumer electronics versus direct and also just any comments you can make about linearity during the quarter.

TIM COOK: We're seeing strength in all geography. It has been amazing at how balanced it's been. If you look at the Mac in the Americas, we were up 52% year-over-year. In Europe we were up 48, in Japan we were up 47. It's very solid throughout. And Asia Pacific we were actually up 62. And so these are obviously all multiples to the market growth. Within each of those, the consumer appears to be very strong. Our pro business also has a very nice pick up last quarter. The Mac Pro sold more units since it debuted with the new Intel processor. Education was up 35% in the U.S. And so overall, just strength everywhere. We felt very good.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And then linearity for iPhones as well as Mac.

TIM COOK: On the Mac side, the only unusual thing on the linearity was we started shipping the MacBook Air late in January. It was constrained most of the quarter. And so a lot of those shipments did go out in the month of March. By the end of March, we were at near a supply/demand balance on it.

SHANNON CROSS: Just one final question. Actually, in linearity of the iPhone.

TIM COOK: In iPhone we really outstripped our supply toward the end of the quarter. We sold more than expected. We thought there would be more of a sequential decline there than there was. And so it was reasonably strong but March in particular was strong.

SHANNON CROSS: And any indication you can give us with regard to MacBook Air, on gross margins above or below, I don't know, anything you can give us as a metric?

TIM COOK: The customers love it.

SHANNON CROSS: So no comment on gross margin, no.

TIM COOK: Not at the individual unit level.

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Can we have the next question, please? Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Yes, we'll move to our next question. Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: Hi, guys. Peter when you ship the SDK, is there a catch up period for the phones that were shipped or is it all ratably from that point?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: If I understand your question, Keith, we will begin to recognize the revenue and the product costs once we ship the 2.0 software over the remaining lives of the -- remaining lives for the phone.

KEITH BACHMAN: So there is no catch up period, it will be ratably from that point.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, ratably for the remaining life.

KEITH BACHMAN: Peter, I want to go to the gross margin side, when at the year-over-year comps, gross margins were down 220 basis points. You flagged some areas that were different on the sequential basis. Leopard would be out of the equation. In fact, software was a richer mix when you look at March to March. Could you just pick out a couple of the other large drivers of change on a year-over-year basis and particularly if you could identify whether the mix between CPUs and iPods was favorable or unfavorable.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Keith, it's really hard for me to do year-over-year, gross margin comparisons. You got your different points in your product cycles, different commodity cycles, different mix. And that's why we've traditionally talked about gross margin on a sequential detail. I prefer to just stick with the sequential comments that I gave you which again, gross margin is better than what we thought it would be.

KEITH BACHMAN: Fair enough. Last question for you, Peter. If you have your operating segments and if you thought about, is there a deviation in the operating segments in the amount of gross margin they report by geography? In other words, was the variance in terms of the individual geographies materially different than what you had as a company as a whole?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we'll put out the 10-Q in the next week or so in our segment reporting that the gross margin level will be there. You can look at prior 10-Q's to see the different gross margins in the segments. There is a little bit of variability. But we're quite happy with each of our segments.

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. I'll cede the floor. Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll move to Shaw Wu with American Technologies.

SHAW WU, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH: I have a question on your acquisition of PAE Semi. Any comments or color you can give around that? Thanks.

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shaw, we occasionally buy smaller technology companies from time to time, and we don't have a practice of commenting on our purpose or plan so I can't.

SHAW WU: Okay. Thanks.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shaw. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Yes. We have Jeff Fidacaro with Merrill Lynch.

JEFF FIDACARO, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: When you look at growth it's down second quarter. Given your strength has accelerated to three times the market growth, could you highlight comparable seasonality in the Mac business in your June quarter?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. In what we generally see, in June, is a sequential increase in Mac shipments as the education buying season begins, and the June quarter tends to be more heavily weighted to K-12, which buys typically at lower ASP's, and the September quarter tends to be more heavily weighted within the ed buying season by higher education.

JEFF FIDACARO: One follow-up, as I move over to the iPhone, when you look at the non-unlocked or unactivated phones prior to the quarter, some were gifts bought late in the holiday season. Have you seen any change in the carry over from the December quarter, were they actually activated, have you seen significant changes?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As Tim commented, it's really hard to estimate precisely, and we don't want to throw a number out. Unlocking is occurring. And it is significant. But our view is that this is just a clear interest in demand globally for the iPhone. And we think we're hearing reports of iPhones being used in many countries, and this is one of the things that gives us confidence in our goal of shipping out 10 million in calendar year 2008.

JEFF FIDACARO: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Jeff. Could we have the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll move to Toni Sacconaghi with Sanford Bernstein.

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. I would hoping you could reconcile your statement that iPhone demand was out stripping supply at the end of the quarter with what appears to be an excess supply in most European countries of the phone.You're indicating they can price as they want and we're seeing price cuts of over 50% on the phone which doesn't sound like a situation where they're under supplied. Were you seeing a noticeably different demand profile in the U.S. relative to your expectations versus Europe and if so, why couldn't you simply ship phones from what appears to be an over stocked Europe to U.S. to fulfill that demand?

TIM COOK: Tony, my point was the stock outs were occurring in our own stores toward the end of the quarter, and we have believed that that was because our stores are more susceptible to people going in, buying multiple units and unlocking and exporting them. However, I also added that currently, inventories are low in both our stores and in the channel.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And is that also the case in your European channel? Or is that an aggregate channel statement?

TIM COOK: I don't want to be specific at the carrier level but in the aggregate, Europe is low, in the aggregate, the U.S. is low.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And at the very end of the quarter where you were having stock outs in your own stores, was your channel inventory also low? Because it seemed like the phones were readily available in Europe and through AT&T stores, which obviously begged the question of why were you not able to better balance the allocation of phones, particularly towards the end of the quarter?

TIM COOK: Once the unit is already shipped and designated to a carrier, the ability to move them from carrier to carrier is very low. So you can have very short term cases where there is some imbalance, but I think the major point is that we sold more than we thought we would, and that today, inventories are low in aggregate in Europe and in aggregate in the U.S.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Can you comment on whether you thought you sold more in Europe than you thought you would?

TIM COOK: No. I'm just going to comment that in total, that we sold more than we expected. We expected a sharper seasonal decline than what we experienced. And as you know, this was our first Q1 to Q2 that we've been in the phone business, so we've learned something.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then, staying with the phones, I know a couple other people have asked, but last quarter on this call you said you weren't comfortable discussing the unlocked percentage because of the high concentration of phones that -- concentration of phones that had been sold at the end of December in the holiday season and thought you would get a beater read on that in January. Invariably you have gotten a better read on that. Given that you had given out the number before or an estimate of that number, why the reticence now given at least for last quarter you should have ample ability to be able to quantify that.

TIM COOK: We don't feel that we can quantify it with precision so we don't want to put out a number that we can't stand behind. But we've gone out of our way to classify the number as significant. And you know, I'm not sure how to be more clear than that.

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then switching to Macs, your notebook ASP declined sequentially year-over-year, given that you introduced the MacBook Pro which got off to a good start and strength in MacBook Pros. Were those both relatively small and were price cuts relatively big? Or how do we reconcile the ASP decline?

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Tony, it's Peter. The ASP decline was slight both on a sequential and year-over-year basis. They were largely driven by the transition that we had in the quarter and some mix shifts within our MacBook and MacBook Pro lines. Again, they were small.

TONI SACCONAGHI: Okay. Thank you very much.

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Tony. The next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll move to Charles Wolf with Needham and Company.

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO: Yes, I have a couple questions. One is, do you have any color that you can provide on the demographics of MacBook Air purchases? I originally thought it would be for road warriors, but the numbers suggest it's selling far better than that. And sort of this is the same vein, do you have any sense of how many Windows users purchased a MacBook Air?

TIM COOK: We don't on the latter, Charlie. What we would share is that this is appealing to all sorts of people from college professors to students to people that travel a lot. Seems to have universal appeal. And also, the cannibalization factor was extremely low to the other portables which is one of the key reasons we were able to have a very minor sequential design from Q1 where it usually would be much deeper.

CHARLES WOLF: Thank you.

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Charlie. Thanks to everyone for joining us. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks. As a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on apple.com/investor and by telephone. The numbers for the telephone replay are 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820. The confirmation code is 7414725. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896 and financial analysts can contact John Hoover or me with additional questions. John is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference call. We thank everyone for their participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080507e44n002er
  


 HD
 Q4  2007 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,244 words
   PD
22 October 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this  Apple Incorporated fourth quarter 2007 quarterly results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.   

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, CORP. FIN., APPLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer; and he'll be joined by Apple COO, Tim Cook; and Treasurer, Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our call may consist of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, stock-based compensation expense, taxes, and our earnings. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2006, the Forms 10-Q for the first, second, and third quarters of 2007, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the attached press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates. With that I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're pleased to report record results, including the highest September quarter revenue and earnings in Apple's history. Revenue of $6.22 billion increased 29% over the prior September quarter. The revenue was driven by record Mac sales and continued strong demand for iPods. Operating margin for the quarter was stronger than expected at 17.1%, resulting primarily from higher revenue and gross margin than we had anticipated. Net income was $904 million, which was up 67% over the prior September quarter's results and translated to earnings per share of $1.01.   

I would like to first talk about our Mac products and services, which represented 62% of our total quarterly revenue. We're extremely pleased to have shipped 2.16 million Macs, [400,000] above the June quarters all time record for Apple and representing 34% growth over the year-ago quarter. On a worldwide basis, Apple's growth rate was over 2 times IDC's most recently-published market growth rate for the September quarter. Customers responded very favorably to the new iMacs we announced in August, driving 31% year-over-year growth in desktop systems. Demand for Apple's MacBooks and MacBook Pros continued to be very strong. Sales of portables increased 37% over the prior September quarter and accounted for 62% of Macs sold. We ended the quarter with slightly less than three weeks of Mac channel inventory.   

Now I would like to discuss our music products and services, which accounted for 36% of total revenue during the quarter. We sold 10.2 million iPods, representing 17% growth over the year-ago quarter. We began and ended the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory. Reaction to the new iPods announced last month has been very positive and we are shipping the best iPod lineup ever as we head into the holiday buying season. Apple executed a very smooth transition to an all-New iPod lineup without a hitch.   

Other music revenue grew 33% year-over-year once again fueled by strong iTunes store sales. We're very pleased with initial reaction to the iTunes WiFi music store and our new relationship with  Starbucks. iTunes continued to account for over 85% of songs purchased and downloaded in the U.S. according to the latest data available from Nielsen Soundscan and iTunes customers have now purchased over 3 billion songs and 100 million TV shows. Based on the latest date from ISPI Market Research, 17% of global music sales in the first half of calendar 2007 were digital, up from 11% in all of 2006. We believe that the popularity of iTunes has been instrumental to the growth in this trend. Based on the latest data from NPD, iTunes continues to be the third largest distributor of music in the United States, having surpassed both Target and Amazon.   

We're thrilled to have sold 1.1 million iPhones during the quarter and customers are really loving the product. Our research shows that an amazing 95% of iPhone customers would recommend the iPhone to others. Additionally, the research firm, Strategy Analytics, estimates that iPhone was the fourth highest-selling handset in the U.S. market in the September quarter. We're recognizing revenue from iPhone handset sales using subscription accounting over a 24-month estimated economic life. Total revenue recognized during the quarter from sales of iPhones, iPhone accessories, and payments from  AT&T was $118 million. Total deferred revenue from iPhone and Apple TV was $636 million at the end of the September quarter compared to $180 million at the end of the June quarter. As you know, after lowering the price of iPhone to $399 last month, we offered $100 credit to customers who had purchased an iPhone prior to the price reduction. We are accounting for the credits as they are redeemed by charging the associated product costs to costs of goods sold. We anticipate most of these redemptions to occur by the end of the December quarter.   

We're on track to begin selling iPhones in Europe on November 9, partnering with 02 in the U.K. and with T-Mobile in Germany. As we announced last week, we will begin selling the iPhones in France beginning on November 29, partnering with Orange.   

I would like to now turn to the Apple retail stores which posted record quarterly revenue and traffic driven by very strong interest in Macs, our new iPods, and the iPhone. Revenue was $1.25 billion, representing 42% year-over-year growth. The stores generated $268 million in segment margin compared to $156 million in the year-ago quarter. We opened 12 new stores during the quarter, ending with 197 stores. With an average of 190 stores opened during the quarter, average revenue per store was $6.6 million compared to the $5.6 million in the year-ago quarter.   

The stores sold 473,000 Macs during the quarter, representing 46% year-over-year growth. Once again, over 50% of the customers buying Macs in our stores during the quarter were new to Mac. We delivered over 300,000 personal training sessions and ended the quarter with 387,000 members in our one to one and Procare programs. Over 31 million people visited our stores during the quarter, representing over 12,500 customers per store per week.   

We will continue to invest in new stores in the U.S. and internationally with approximately 40 stores scheduled to open in the coming year, including previously-announced high-profile stores in New York and Boston. We are also pleased to announce plans for our first store in China, which will open in Beijing next summer. Our U.S. education channel also posted an outstanding quarter with record revenue in Mac shipments. Our new account initiative in the K-12 market was very successful, and our extremely popular back-to-school promotion drove strong MacBook and MacBook Pro sales, contributing to our best higher ed quarter ever with 36% year over growth in total Mac sales.   

Total Company gross margin was 33.6%, which was lower sequentially, but higher than expected due to a number of factors. We benefited from a higher margin product mix, a weakening U.S. dollar, a better-than-expected commodity environment and a higher mix of direct business. Operating expenses were $1.03 billion, including $58 million in stock-based compensation expense. We capitalized $22 million of software development expense related to Leopard during the quarter. OI&E was $170 million. The tax rate for the quarter was about 27%, lower than our anticipated rate of 32% primarily due to a benefit from the settlement of prior-year audits. We had very strong cash generation during the quarter, increasing our cash balance to end with $15.4 billion. Cash flow from operations was $1.7 billion.   

Looking ahead to the December quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter we are targeting revenue of about $9.2 billion. We expect the total quarterly cost of non-cash stock-based compensation to be approximately $92 million. We expect gross margin to be about 31%, reflecting approximately $12 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We are guiding gross margin down sequentially as a result of several factors, including the full quarter impact of our recent product transitions and reduced pricing, lower sales of iLife and iWork in their second quarter, seasonally higher component costs, and a higher mix of indirect sales. We expect OpEx to be about $1.165 billion including about $80 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect OI&E to be about $195 million and we expect the tax rate to return to about 32%. We expect to generate EPS of about $1.42, including an anticipated $0.07 per share related to stock-based compensation.   

In closing we are extremely proud of our record-breaking fiscal 2007 results. We generated over $24 billion in revenue and $3.5 billion in net income. We sold 7 million Macs and 52 million iPods, each growing by more than 30% over the prior year. We introduced the revolutionary iPhone and sold over 1 million in the first 74 days. Our retail stores hosted over 100 million visitors and produced 4.1 billion in revenue. We exited the September quarter with great momentum. Mac shipments exceeded our previous quarterly record by 400,000 systems and we're very excited about the arrival of Leopard later this week. We introduced an entirely new lineup of iPods last month and customer reaction has been very strong. We've clearly accelerated the momentum for iPhone sales with our new pricing and we're very enthusiastic about our entry into the European mobile phone market next month. We're looking forward to our best December quarter ever as we head into the holiday buying season with the strongest product line-up in Apple's history. With that, I would like to open the call to questions.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) We'll take our first question from Ben Reitzes from  UBS.

BEN REITZES, ANALYST,  UBS: I don't like to cheerlead, but nice quarter. The question is regarding guidance. With regard to your usual pattern, Peter, you seem to be more conservative, usually. You guided up versus the Street by quite a bit to $9.2 billion, maybe arguably $700 million better. What are you seeing that allows you to be so confident in the face of some people being worried about the economy at this time?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, regarding the economy, we'll leave forecasting the global economy to others. But as I really commented at the end, Apple is shipping the best products that we have ever made in our history. We just eclipsed the record that we set for Mac sales last quarter by 400,000. iPod sales accelerated after the transition and we're shipping the best iPods that we've ever made. And the iPhone is doing really, really well. So we're quite confident in the business and we've exited the September quarter with a lot of momentum.   

BEN REITZES: More precisely, on the guidance for iPods, it would seem that launching in September, did you feel that a lot of iPod sales are pushed into the December quarter? Not necessarily pushed, but just naturally the full lineup hasn't had a chance to be fully reflected and that's part of the reason for the guidance as well? And how do we reconcile the sequential for Macs as well? It would seem the guidance implies Macs are up.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me begin with Macs and maybe I'll let Tim address your iPod question. For Macs, in the two most recent quarters, units have been relatively flat from the September quarter to the December quarter, as our education business falls off and is more or less offset by holiday consumer buying. This year it's possible that Mac sales could be sequentially a little lower given the extraordinary success of the back-to-school promotion which intensified the seasonality of the September quarter.   

BEN REITZES: Okay. So you're saying Macs could be lower due to that promotion. Okay.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Could be. We had just a fantastic September quarter, but really back-to-school and our higher ed results were an all-time high for the Company.   

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: Ben, in terms of iPod, sales accelerated dramatically after the introduction of the new iPod and based on some early market share data we've seen from the U.K., France, and Germany, our share is up significantly in the month of December -- or September. The U.K. up 12 points, Japan up 12 points, and France up 6 points. Given these kind of increases, we feel that we are very well-positioned going into the holiday quarter.   

BEN REITZES: Got it. Then lastly, with regard to gross margin, Peter, you talked about going from 33.6 to 31 and you mentioned that the iLife sales go down, but we have Leopard shipping on the 26. I was surprised to hear you not mention that as a major offset on the gross margin line.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, as I commented in my prepared remarks, we are looking forward to Leopard shipping this week. We are very excited about Leopard. But in terms of -- and I didn't think you'd forget about that, but I wanted to focus you on some factors that I think on a net basis will cause more gross margin to go down and that's why I made the comments that I did.   

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Gene Munster from Piper Jaffray.   

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon and congratulations. Peter, if you could talk a little bit about the line item, iPhone-related products and services in terms of -- I'm doing the math here as far as revenue contribution per quarter for the iPhone, it's one-eighth or one -- is it by the month or by the quarter? Can you give a little clarity on that? And then second is, how does it work for the  AT&T revenue? Is it also located by day, by month, or by quarter?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, in terms of iPhone, we are recognizing revenue from handset sales over a 24-month period of time. We actually do do that on a daily basis. Our revenue from iPhone, which includes amortization of handsets, accessory sales, and payments from  AT&T was $118 million in the quarter.   

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. So for the  AT&T contribution and the iPhone contribution, it's on a 24-month -- it depends on the month that the phone is sold; is that correct? Not the quarter, it's the month?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, for the handset, we are amortizing that revenue over 24 months, but as regards payments from  AT&T, we will recognize those payments as revenue over time as earned and I'm not going to get into more detail than that.   

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. That could be by the day, potentially?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, I'm just not going to get into anymore detail about our carrier agreements.   

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. I guess this probably is another category of more details, but is the  AT&T, is it generally a longer-term kind of agreement or more near-term or any term? Any thoughts in terms of how long that contract would go?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As we indicated a couple of quarters ago, it is a multi-year exclusive agreement.   

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And then just one final question. In terms of the  Best Buy stores, how many  Best Buy stores were kind of up and running at the end of the quarter? How many do you expect by the end of the December quarter?   

TIM COOK: Gene, we had 230 operating at the end of the September quarter and we expect more than 270 at the end of the December quarter.   

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Has that had an impact on the business yet, or do you still kind of see that to come?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're very pleased with it. It had very good results, and we're looking forward to expanding it in this quarter.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Richard Gardner of  Citigroup.

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. I had two questions. First of all, I thought it was quite encouraging that your PC channel inventories were below your target range despite the fact that you did expand the  Best Buy agreement in the quarter and was hoping you could give us some detail on why that was the case? And then secondly, I was also surprised to hear that higher component prices were one of the reasons that you cited for sequentially lower gross margin in fourth calendar quarter, because based on our checks, most components seem to be coming down in price now. So was hoping that Tim, you might be able to reconcile that for us.   

TIM COOK: Yes, sure. On your component question, here's what we see going on in the quarter. As you know, Rich, DRAM and NAND Flash markets were favorable last quarter and we believe that that will continue during our Q1. Hard drive and LCDs were tight last quarter and they continue to be at the beginning of this quarter, but we do expect these to stabilize as the quarter unfolds. The other commodities are trading near -- are declining near historic norms. In terms of the channel inventory on the Mac, we are, primarily have low inventories at the end of the quarter because our sales were higher than expected.   

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And Tim, that channel inventory calculation is done on a forward sales basis, correct?   

TIM COOK: It's done on a look-back basis.   

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, all right. Finally, was hoping for clarification on how you're accounting for the iPhone rebate in the quarter?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure.   

RICHARD GARDNER: I know you mentioned it in the prepared remarks, but I missed it.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We are accounting for the credits as they are redeemed by customers and we'll charge the associated product cost to cost of goods sold. And as I indicated in my prepared remarks, we anticipate that most of these redemptions will occur by the end of the December quarter.   

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, great. Thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to David Bailey of  Goldman Sachs.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, thank you. I was wondering if you could help us understand your pricing strategy for iPhone in Europe where the pricing is higher and effectively going up versus the U.S. price as the dollar weakens.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We set our price in Europe, David, when we announced and we, that price also includes VAT and other related duties.   

DAVID BAILEY: And then can you just follow-up and tell us what the percentage of direct sales were in the quarter and maybe give us some idea of what you're expecting for the December quarter since this will be a drag on gross margin?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. In the September quarter, our direct sales were 57% of total company revenue, and that was up from 53% in the year-ago quarter. I can't give you a forecast for this December quarter, but last year in Q1, direct sales were 44% of total Company revenue.   

DAVID BAILEY: Thank you very much.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Kathy Huberty from  Morgan Stanley.

KATHY HUBERTY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Europe outgrew the U.S. now for four quarters in a row. Is that sustainable, or is there some currency factors that are showing up in the numbers?   

TIM COOK: Europe did have excellent growth. In fact, year-over-year, we were up 37% in revenue and 47% in units as you combine the retail stores with the channel results. In terms of Mac units, this is over four times the IDC projected gain for Western Europe and so we're thrilled with the results. Europe did not have the typical lull in August that we have seen. The iMac announcement and then followed by the iPod announcement in early September was enough to overcompensate for that. We factored our view of the future into the guidance that Peter provided earlier.   

KATHY HUBERTY: And then just quickly, Peter, are there any nuances that will show up in the model as non-U.S. revenues become a larger percentage of the business as it relates to either the margin profile or tax rate over time?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I'm not sure how to really answer the first part of your question, but in terms of the second part, generally for most U.S. companies, growth in foreign earnings is a benefit to your taxes. Your U.S. tax rate.   

KATHY HUBERTY: Thanks.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Katie. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Next we'll go to Shannon Cross of Cross Research.   

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Hi. Good afternoon. Just going back to the revenue question, can you talk maybe, Peter, a little bit about the biggest drivers quarter over quarter? Because obviously there's a substantial ramp coming and is it more Mac or iPod or anything you can give us, because it's a big increase.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: It is and as we've said before, the holiday quarter is usually the big quarter for iPods and as I said, we're shipping the best iPods that we've ever made and are looking forward to the December quarter.   

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Then maybe if you could talk a little bit about the ramp in iPhone through the quarter. Obviously a pick-up as you lowered the price. Any more color you can give us there?   

TIM COOK: Shannon, we certainly saw sales accelerate after the price reduction and as Peter mentioned earlier, we were able to sell 1.1 million for the quarter, giving us a cumulative number of 1.4. So we were very happy to check that major check point off our list.   

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Then just one final question. Maybe you could talk a little bit about efforts you have to address the SMB channel, both with Macs and iPhone. Just curious if that's helping to ramp and any specifics you can give us?   

TIM COOK: The SMB market is difficult to measure; however, in terms of what we can see operating out of our online stores and out of our retail stores, we are doing well there and growing. In terms of iPhone, we've said many times that we're providing a solution in iPhone that many businesses love. It gives the people a desktop-class e-mail which is very unusual for a phone and is an unprecedented Internet device. I think, clearly, there's some businesses buying them and very much enjoying them.   

SHANNON CROSS: Are you working with  Salesforce.com on their initiatives to modify their software for iPhone?   

TIM COOK: Yes.   

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, great. Thanks.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Andrew Neff of  Bear Stearns.

ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Thanks. Just a couple things. One, just if you could clarify, Peter, what you're saying about the tax rate this quarter, is it anything that we'll see again next year, or you can give a sense of the guidance for next year? Second, Tim, if you would like, you told us when you thought you'd ship the millionth iPod, any sense of when you're going to ship the three millionth -- iPhone?   

TIM COOK: I'll start with that one. The answer is we're not predicting, Andy. I would reiterate that we're very confident with shipping 10 million in the calendar year of next year. We were very happy to ship our 1 millionth and by the end of the quarter, 1.4. I think it's interesting to note that the 1.4 million, it took us over 24 months -- over two years to achieve a comparable number on iPod. So we're thrilled here. We're very focused on going into the U.K. and Germany on early, in early November and then in France in late November and we're on target to enter Asia in calendar 2008. A lot of focus on iPhone.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Andy, to your tax rate question, the tax rate in the September quarter was about 27%, which was lower than our anticipated 32, primarily due to a benefit from prior-year audits that we had. And as I gave you in my guidance, I expect the tax rate to return to 32% in the December quarter.   

ANDREW NEFF: Also, could you just give a sense about Japan? That's the one market that seems to be on the Mac side lagging and that has been lagging for some time. You've talked about the market growth issues before, is there anything else going on in Japan you can talk about?   

TIM COOK: Andy, it's fair to say that Japan continues to be our most challenging major market. It's the only market that we're at -- a major market that we're not growing significantly in. However, for this past quarter, we were very encouraged with the Macintosh results. The iMac was very well-received and the overall Macintosh had its best year-over-year performance in Japan in seven quarters with units up 14% year-over-year and that compares to an IDC estimate of the market in Japan contracting an additional 2%. So it's a tough market. In terms of revenue, the revenue that you see on the sheet, the iPod had a very difficult compare because we sold a very large number to one telecom company for promotional purposes a year ago. So that was the main driver in the revenue decline.   

ANDREW NEFF: Lastly, Peter, over the last, I guess, eight quarters you've exceeded guidance and I know that you're trying to give us a good sense of what's going to happen, but how should we interpret now you're looking at a very strong quarter. You're a little above where the Street is. How should we calibrate your guidance at this point?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Andy, I give you guidance each quarter that we believe we have a reasonable chance of achieving. And I've talked to you about our view of how we're performing in our product areas and Tim's made some comments in some of our distribution areas as well. We're very confident in our strategy and that the team here at Apple has been working incredibly hard for a number of years and now things are just really coming together quite well for us and I couldn't be happier.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Harry Blount from  Lehman Brothers.

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks. Peter, sorry to keep coming back to this rebate question, but it sounds like you're going to recognize that rebate as a period impact on COGS, but I think you're recognizing the rest of COGS on the iPhone over a 24-month amortization. Is that -- am I hearing that correctly in.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, as regards to the iPhone $100 credit, we will account for it when customers redeem their credit. We will charge it to the cost of the product, to cost of goods sold, and we expect most of the redemptions to occur by the end of the December quarter.   

HARRY BLOUNT: Just to clarify though, why are you doing the rebate as a period cost where as the rest of COGS for the iPhone is more amortized over the 24 months?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. The credit was an additional, but unspecified product deliverable to iPhone customers, which is why we are not accounting for it before it was redeemed, but accounting for it at the point of redemption.   

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay. Then on the European carrier revenue rec, is that also going to be structurally similar to the  AT&T revenue rec in terms of what the components that are period costs versus the components that are amortization costs?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: In terms of payments that we may receive from European carriers?   

HARRY BLOUNT: Well, just, the handset amortized over 24 months, the accessories recognized in the period, and the payments. Is it the same structure?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, we will recognize the revenue from handsets over 24 months regardless of where they are sold. We will recognize revenue from iPhone accessories at the time of sale and we will recognize payments from  AT&T and other carriers as revenue over time as earned.   

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay. Tim, real quickly, just a benchmark on the number of Mac distribution locations and number of iPod locations.   

TIM COOK: We're over 40,000 on iPod and within the last year, we've added about 2000 Mac locations to around 8700 currently.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Harry. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Toni Sacconaghi from Sanford Bernstein.   

TONI SACCONAGHI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, thank you. I'm trying to get a better sense of how significant the elasticity was around the price cut with the iPhone. My sense was obviously in Q2 you did 135,000 phones a day in -- excuse me, in Q3. In this past quarter you were probably doing 5,000 to 10,000 phones a day before you cut the price and then you averaged about 18,500 phones after you cut the price on the iPhone per day. Can you give us a sense of what the trajectory of daily sales volumes was from the iPhone immediately following the price cut? And then how that ended 22 days later at the end of the quarter? Was it relatively constant? Did it actually get better as the word leaked out? Can you give us a sense of that? Because clearly when you initially announced the product, you had a strong deceleration from enormous anticipation to when you cut the price.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Toni, we were very happy with the elasticity that we saw. It enabled us to far surpass our expectation of hitting around 1 million units cumulatively by the end of the quarter. Some number of these were sold to people that have an intention to unlock and where we don't know precisely how many people are doing that, our current guess is that there was probably 250,000 of the 1.4 million that we sold where people had bought them with the intention of doing that. Many of those happened after the price cut. We're not going to project precise numbers, as I told Andy before, in terms of as we go into Q1, but we remain very confident with hitting 10 million units in calendar year 2008.   

TONI SACCONAGHI: And can you give me a sense of the daily sales rate immediately following the price cut versus the daily sales rate either at the end of the quarter or over the last week? Has it been maintained or have we seen an acceleration or a degradation in that daily sales rate?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. The only thing that I'll say, Toni, is we obviously saw an acceleration once we took the price cut. We're not going to get into disclosing our daily sales.   

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then you raised the issue of the unlocked intention. I presume that phones that are sold that are ultimately are not subscribed to the  AT&T network are not eligible for any payments from  AT&T, correct?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: That's correct. The payments on  AT&T depend on being locked to  AT&T, obviously.   

TONI SACCONAGHI: And then in terms of thinking about next quarter, the cell phone market is modestly seasonal. Typically your Mac business has been flat to slightly up in Q1. Your iPod business has been up 100% or more. The phone market tends to be up about 15% or so as a market. Is that how you're anticipating all else being equal? Obviously you're entering three new countries this quarter, but if we think about how you guys think about seasonality, do you think this might be more or less seasonal given its price point versus the typical phone market? And how do we think about that?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, in the phone market for our phone estimate, we looked at the three new markets that we're going into for the first time. And so that had a lot to do with our own internal estimates. And then we looked at the seasonality of the phone market as well in the U.S.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Toni. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Rob Semple of  Credit Suisse. Mr. Semple, your line is open.   

NANCY PAXTON: Rob, you there? Could we move on to the next caller, please.   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Mike Abramsky rom  RBC Capital Markets. Hearing no response, we'll move to our next question. We'll go to Keith Bachman from  Bank of Montreal.

NANCY PAXTON: Any response from Keith?   

OPERATOR: Hearing no response, we will move on to Bill Fearnley of FTN Midwest.   

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST: Hi. At Apple, can you guys hear us?   

NANCY PAXTON: We can.   

BILL FEARNLEY: This is Bill Fearnley. Can you hear me because you missed Rob Semple and you missed some of the other guys as well. Am I connected?   

NANCY PAXTON: Yes, we can hear you.   

BILL FEARNLEY: Well, we just skipped over three of my colleagues, so there's a problem with the conference call bridge. Quick question for you if I could on the iPhone, in terms of the iPhone, Tim, last call you had mentioned that you had a couple of corporate customers that were piloting the iPhone and the enterprise. Anything you can share there for an update? Also, any update on any cannibalization that you're seeing with the iPhone versus the iPod? And then also on pilots, if I missed it in the preamble, I apologize, but are there any updates on the pilot with  Circuit City? Thanks.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: On  Circuit City, we're not doing a pilot with  Circuit City. We're focusing on expanding with  Best Buy and I had mentioned the numbers on that earlier, we ended with 230  Best Buy stores and expect to be north of 270 by the end of the quarter. All the iPhone customers are reporting incredible customer satisfaction and we've achieved 95% of those have said that they would recommend the phone to others and so these numbers are unprecedented in our history.   

BILL FEARNLEY: But you had mentioned specifically, enterprise tests on the conference call last quarter. Any update specifically on those enterprise tests that you were running, though?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. I don't have any updates on those.   

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. In terms of cannibalization, any commentary you can give on cannibalization, iPhone or from the iPhone to the iPod, please?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We saw no obvious cannibalization prior to the new iPod announcements. Post the new iPod announcements, we really don't have enough data to comment yet. We will report again in January.   

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. Then one last question, if I could shift gears to the Macintosh, please. In the Pro segment, any update in what you've seen in terms of uplift or CS3 or some of the other new products that have gone universal binary? Thank you.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We've seen an incredible growth in our video business driven by final cut studio. We've seen an incredible growth in our audio business driven by the new Logic software that we just put out. In the D&P space, the D&P space is slow, I think, as buyers evaluate changing to both CS3 and Leopard.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Rob Semple of  Credit Suisse.

ROB SEMPLE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hey, it's Rob. Can you hear me now?   

NANCY PAXTON: We can hear you. Sorry about that.   

ROB SEMPLE: That's okay. No problem. Question on the iPod Touch and I guess the iPhone. I know the price cut came about the same time as you launched the Touch. Did you see any potential cannibalization I guess away from the iPhone for people that opted for the lower price point or the Touch? I know that's tough to quantify, but just anecdotally, did any of your consumer surveys show that?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We saw no obvious evidence of cannibalization from the iPhone to the iPod prior to the launch of the new product. And since the launch of those new products, we really don't have enough data. As you know, we were still in the early stages of ramping the iPod Touch at the end of the quarter.   

ROB SEMPLE: Okay. And I apologize for this, because I was cut off at the beginning of the presentation, but did you give the CapEx number for the quarter and then your outlook for the fiscal year?   

TIM COOK: Rob, I didn't give the outlook. We'll do that when we file our 10-K in a few weeks, but our capital in the quarter was $292 million and it would have been $822 for the year, for fiscal '07.   

ROB SEMPLE: Okay. And then just lastly, guys, what do you estimate the size of the Mac installed base right now, and then what percentage of that installed base is on Tiger?   

TIM COOK: Let me give you two numbers, which I think are the most important to you. The vast majority of Mac shipped in the last four years are able to run Leopard. Specifically, the number is about 21 million. When we announced Tiger, there were 15 million units that were eligible to run Tiger and we did $100 million of revenue on Tiger at the first quarter of launch. Okay. Thanks, Tim.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Mike Abramsky with  RBC Capital Markets.

MIKE ABRAMSKY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Can you hear me now?   

NANCY PAXTON: We can hear you.   

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Excellent, thank you. More of a high-level question. Can you just talk a little bit about the drivers that you're experiencing on Mac momentum and market share shift? There's obviously several dimensions here. You've got new buyers, new product lines, new distribution, new software. Can you just give us a little color, perhaps, on which one of those are perhaps most significant to some of the momentum that you're seeing or perhaps they all are and some color on those that are being reflected into your guidance?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We did have an incredible quarter on the Mac with breaking our previous Mac record by 400,000 units and it was the end of an incredible year for the Mac because we did twice as many Macs as we did in 2004. We attribute this to, one, the fact that we're shipping the best Macs in the history of the Company; and secondly, an incredible reception that we received to the new iMac that launched in August; third, we've now shipped over 120 million iPods and most of these were shipped to windows customers who never owned a Mac. So we've introduced the Apple brand to them through the iPod. Next, you can see this as a result, over 50% of the Macs that we've sold in our retail stores were to customers who never owned a Mac before, so we've been very successful of expanding our customer base. And finally, this was the most successful back-to-school season we have ever had. So all of those together have led to a continuation of the huge momentum that now gives us -- adds up to 11 quarters out of the last 12 where we have grown faster than the market and specifically the last several at a multiple of the market.   

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Are there any risks of your scale? Obviously, you've had some advantages that you've touted over some of the larger competitors, including the lack of viruses, for example on your operating success, and your hardware, your ability to maintain a far more high-touch buying experience. Do you have comfortable that as you scale you'll be able to sustain these advantages of growth?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we have been growing a lot, as I've said. Our NPD share is up to 16% in the U.S., which is a terrific increase for us, but there's still a lot of room left for growth. As you know, we scaled iPod from being a fairly small business to the last holiday quarter we sold 21 million iPods and we've sold over 120 million in total so far and so we really have an experience at scaling the products.   

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. Last question, you talked about the iPods shipping to windows and that being a big driver, obviously, of Mac. In Europe, are you expecting a similar halo affect due to iPhone sales there helping other products further like iPods and Macs?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We'll see. We're just launching in Europe on November 9, and so we've got a lot to learn. However, I would point out that our European business in the Mac area grew 47% year-over-year and this is over 4 times IDC's projection of growth for Western Europe. So obviously there is substantial evidence to say that the iPod has really helped us in Europe as well.   

MIKE ABRAMSKY: Okay. Thank you very much.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mike. Could we have the next question, please.   

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Keith Bachman of  Bank of Montreal.

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST,  BANK OF MONTREAL: Hi, guys. Can you hear me now?   

NANCY PAXTON: We can, hear you.   

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, great. Related to the last comment, Tim, the other segment in terms of unit growth had tremendous CPU unit growth, as did Europe. How do you think about expanding your channels in those categories, either on the direct side or the indirect side, whether it be store openings or other retail partnerships to continue to capture or have the opportunity to capture some of that growth?   

TIM COOK: Keith, the other segment for us, in particular, is Asia Pacific. So it did grow at 52% year-over-year. It is our fastest-growing region. And as I had mentioned earlier, we have added 2,000 store fronts to Mac distribution over the last year and we're continuing to assess quality partners and quality store fronts to continue increasing that.   

KEITH BACHMAN: Tim, but of that amount in 2000, I know on the direct side how many you've done, but can you give my any sense of what proportion or out of the U.S. deal of those 2,000?   

TIM COOK: There are many of those that are in Asia and Europe, many of those.   

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Let me ask two quickies then. Tim, do you think -- you've obviously announced that you're going to do Asia Pacific in terms of the iPhone. Do you think you can enter that market by having a 2.5G phone as opposed to a 3G phone?   

TIM COOK: We have nothing to announce today in terms of our entry into Asia other than to reaffirm our plans to enter in 2008.   

KEITH BACHMAN: The last one that I just want to sneak one in, Peter, I was also one of the guys cut off in the beginning. Did you indicate what your cash flow from ops or what your free cash flow, either one for the quarter was, please?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes. Cash flow from operations was $1.7 billion.   

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thanks, guys.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. We have time for one final question.   

OPERATOR: We'll take our final question from Andy Hargreaves of Pacific Crest Securities.   

ANDY HARGREAVES, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Thanks. Just wondering if your strategy in terms of getting video content on iTunes has changed given the increase in available content online, and I'm talking about different forms other than professional long form content. Would you guys look to add new forms of content as we move forward?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm not sure I completely understand your question, but we've got the largest library of content available in the world for sale to customers, more than 5 million songs, over 500 movies, and hundreds of TV shows and I think our store is unparalleled to anybody else's.   

ANDY HARGREAVES: Okay. Then on the rebates, if we could touch on that real quick. Can you give us any qualitative or quantitative info on how much in sales each $100 rebate has brought back and then what the percentage of those that have been redeemed are?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sorry, those are not details that we're going to get into. I think customers have really appreciated the $100 credit that we have offered them. As I've said a couple of times this afternoon, we expect most people to redeem by the end of the December quarter.   

ANDY HARGREAVES: All right. Thanks.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Andy. We apologize for all the technical difficulties. A replay of today's call will be available as a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on apple.com/investor, and via telephone. And the number for the telephone replay is 719-457-0820. The confirmation code is 4434584. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan's at 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.   

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's teleconference. We would like to thank you all for your participation, and have a great day.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071029e3am001e9
  


 HD
 Q2  2007 Apple Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,678 words
   PD
25 April 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this  Apple Inc. second quarter 2007 quarterly results conference call. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead, ma'am.   

NANCY PAXTON, SR. DIRECTOR, IR AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE INC.: Thank you, good afternoon, and thanks for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer. He'll be joined by Apple COO Tim Cook and Treasurer Gary Whistler for the Q&A session with analysts.   

   TD
Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today may consist of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, earnings per share, future products and non-cash stock-based compensation expense.   

Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2006, the Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2007, and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the attached press release.   

Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are pleased to report strong financial results in the best March quarter in Apple's history.   

The quarter's revenue was $5.26 billion, representing 21% growth over the prior March quarter's results. The revenue growth was driven by very strong demand for Macs and another great quarter for iPod sales. Operating margin for the quarter was very strong at 18.7%, resulting from stronger than expected revenue and an extremely favorable commodity cost environment. We generated net income of $770 million, which was up 88% over the prior March quarter's results, and translated to earnings per share of $0.87.   

I'd like to first talk about our Mac products and services which represented 56% of our total quarterly revenue. We shipped a total of 1.52 million Macs representing 36% growth over the year ago quarter. We continued to be very pleased with our Mac sales growth which was ahead of our expectations and represented more than three times IDC's latest published industry growth rate estimate for the March quarter.   

Demand for our Mac Books and Mac Book Pros continued to be very strong. Sales of Mac Notebooks grew 79% year-over-year during the quarter, and accounted for 59% of total Macs sold. We began and ended the quarter with between three and four weeks of Mac channel inventory.   

Now I'd like to turn to our music products and services, which accounted for 44% of total revenue during the quarter. We sold 10.55 million iPods, representing 24% growth over the year ago quarter. The iPod Shuffle was especially popular with the addition of four brilliant new colors beginning in late January. The number of iPods in the channel at quarter end was essentially flat sequentially and we ended the quarter comfortably within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory.   

Other music revenue grew 35% year-over-year fueled by very strong sales through the iTunes store. The store's growing catalog now includes over 5 million songs, 350 television shows, and 500 movies. We're very pleased to have added titles from Paramount Pictures, Lions Gate, and MGM to our movie library. iTunes continues to lead the market for songs purchased and downloaded accounting for over 85% of the U.S. market based on the latest data from Nielsen SoundScan.   

Sales from our Apple retail stores were $855 million representing 34% year-over-year growth. The stores generated $32 million in segment margin in addition to $174 million of associated manufacturing profit. We opened seven new stores during the quarter, ending with 177 stores. With an average of 172 stores open during the quarter, average revenue per store was $5 million. We now have 21 stores outside the U.S., including our new store in Rome that opened last month.   

As we previously announced, we plan to open high-profile stores in Sydney, Australia and Glasgow, Scotland later this calendar year. We're also pleased to announce plans for our third store in Manhattan at 14th Street and 9th Avenue in the meat packing district. The store sold 275,000 Macs during the quarter, representing 79% year-over-year growth.   

As we've been reporting for some time now, over 50% of the customers buying Macs in our stores were new to the Mac. Over 21.5 million people visited our stores during the quarter, representing almost 10,000 customers per store per week. We've continued to invest in our stores to enhance the customer experience. They are a great place to view the Apple TV experience today and they are preparing for their biggest launch of all time, the iPhone in late June.   

Gross margin was 35.1%, considerably higher than our guidance primarily due to the very favorable commodity pricing environment, better product mix, lower service costs and leverage on higher revenues. Operating expenses were $863 million including $54 million in expense related to stock-based compensation. We capitalized $27 million of software development expense during the quarter. OI&E was $148 million the tax rate for the quarter was 32%. We had strong cash generation during the quarter increasing our cash balance by over $700 million to end with $12.6 billion.   

Before I talk about the outlook for the June quarter, I'd like to provide a little more information about our strategy for the iPhone and Apple TV and how we plan to account for them. We believe the iPhone is a revolutionary device that is years ahead of the competition. At Macworld, we demonstrated a number of the iPhone's break through features including its pioneering multi-touch display and user interface, visual voicemail, desktop class e-mail and web browsing, and, of course, the best iPod ever.   

We plan to build on this incredible foundation by continuing to develop new software features as well as entirely new applications and incorporate them into the iPhone. And since iPhone customers will likely be our best advocates for the product, we want to get them many of these new features and applications at no additional charge as they become available.   

Since we will be periodically providing new software features to iPhone customers free of charge, we will use subscription accounting and recognize the revenue and product cost of goods sold associated with iPhone handset sales on a straight-line basis over 24 months. So while the cash from iPhone sales will be collected at the time of sale, we will be recording deferred revenue and costs of goods sold on our balance sheet and amortizing both of them into our earnings on a straight-line basis over 24 months.   

We will continue to expense our iPhone engineering, sales and marketing costs as we incur them. This accounting policy will have no impact on cash flow or the economics of our business.   

Apple's proven capability to create innovative software gives us a tremendous competitive advantage in the consumer electronics industry. We are taking this bold step to leverage what we do best. We hope the result will be to surprise and delight our iPhone customers, which should result in happier customers and more customers as we enter this billion unit per year mobile phone market.   

We also plan to recognize payments from  AT&T Cingular as revenue over time as earned. We will report iPhone results each quarter that will include unit sales, and recognize revenue for iPhones, iPhone accessories and payments from  AT&T Cingular. Similar to iPhone, we plan to periodically provide new software features and enhancements at no charge to our Apple TV customers. We will also recognize the revenue and product cost of goods sold associated with Apple TV on a straight-line basis over 24 months. And this will be included in the other music related products and services in the data summary we provide you each quarter.   

Additionally, we will provide you with a schedule each quarter in our earnings release that indicates the total deferred revenue, including the combined amounts related to the iPhone and Apple TV.   

Looking ahead to the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, we are targeting revenue of about $5.1 billion. We expect the total quarterly cost of non-cash stock-based compensation to be approximately $65 million. We expect gross margin to be about 32% reflecting approximately $9 million related to stock-based compensation expense. We expect OpEx to be about $915 million including about $56 million related to stock-based compensation. This includes increased marketing expenses related to the launch of the iPhone.   

We expect OI&E to be about $150 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 32%. We expect to generate EPS of about $0.66 including an anticipated $0.05 per share related to non-cash stock-based compensation expense.   

In closing, we are very pleased with our results. In the first half of fiscal 2007, we generated $12.4 billion in revenue and $1.8 billion in earnings. Our Mac shipments were up 32% over the first half of 2006 and iPod shipments grew 40%. We're also very proud to have recently shipped our 100 millionth iPod.   

We're extremely excited about the launch of the iPhone in late June, and we continue to be very confident about the other innovative products in our pipeline. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Our first question will come from Bear, Stearns' Andrew Neff.   

ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & CO.: I want to follow-up on a statement you put out separately, I guess, from the board talking about the situation relative to the options. Can you give us any color as to the rationale for that? Can you give us commentary on, I guess, what appears to be discrepancies between two statements? And then, I guess, another question, can you us any give Apple TV numbers at this point?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay, Andy I'll answer your first question, and Tim can take your second. The board put out its statement today, I think, to express confidence in what we have said and done.   

The board said that Steve cooperated fully with Apple's independent investigation and with the government's investigation of stock option grants at Apple. The SEC investigated the matter thoroughly.   

It's complaint speaks for itself in terms of what it says, what it does not say, who it charges and who it does not charge, and the board has expressed its complete confidence in the conclusion of Apple's independent investigation and in Steve's integrity and his ability to lead the Company.   

TIMOTHY COOK, COO, APPLE INC.: In regards to Apple TV, we've gotten some incredible reviews from many different sources. As you know, we just started shipping on the third week in March. It's, we're off to a very good start and we're going to continue investing in this area. We're very, very excited about the long-term potential of the product.   

ANDREW NEFF: Okay, any shipment figures at this point, you said you were going to go with them going forward?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Uh, we're not releasing the exact unit shipments.   

ANDREW NEFF: Okay, thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: The next question is from Shannon Cross, Cross Research.   

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, SOLEIL-CROSS RESEARCH: Hi, good afternoon. Just a question. Peter, if you could just sort of explain again, the subscription model for the Apple TV and what the rationale is behind that?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We have a proven capability to create innovative software that we think gives us a tremendous competitive advantage in the consumer electronic industry, and we're taking the steps so that we can leverage what we do best, and we believe that the results of this will be that we can surprise and delight our iPhone customers. We think they will be happier as a result and believe we'll have more of them as we enter this billion unit per year market.   

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, and then just a question with regard to staffing, since there was a bit of a delay on Leopard, how do you feel right now about your current staffing levels, ability to hire employees, was this sort of a one-time thing or are you looking to staff up at this point?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Shannon, it's Tim, we have no issue at all in hiring really great people. This is just simply a matter of, there's two very, iPod is a very revolutionary product. It uses the Mac OS, as you know, we had always planned on using Mac OS resources to complete the iPhone. It's taking us a little more resource than we thought, so we made a choice and delayed Leopard. We think it's the right choice.   

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Sure. We'll go to Rob Semple with Credit Suisse.   

ROBERT SEMPLE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. I guess Peter and Tim, could you walk us through the puts and takes behind the sequential decline in gross margin? I guess the component environment outlook would probably be the most important factor to hear about.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay, Rob, I'll make a few comments and then Tim can add on. I'm guiding gross margin down sequentially, largely as a result of the commodity pricing beginning to trend up. But also the beginning of our education buying season, which we'll see higher K-12 purchases this quarter, typically at lower price points, and a couple weeks ago, we completely repriced our display line and that had an impact, as well.   

ROBERT SEMPLE: And then if I could just follow-up, maybe a clarification, you talked about payments, I guess from Cingular,  AT&T, are you guys getting subsidies for the phone or are you getting a percentage of the monthly service contracts that the customers enter into? How's that relationship going to work?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rob, I'm not able to comment specifically and beyond what I said which is we will recognize payments from  AT&T Cingular as revenue over time as earned. Tim, did you want to comment?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Yes, sure. The commodity environment last quarter was favorable as we thought it would be, we spoke in January, however it was even more favorable than we had predicted, particularly in the memory area. This quarter we see some commodities moving from an oversupply condition to more of a supply/demand balanced position, particularly NAN flash and memory in general.   

ROBERT SEMPLE: Okay, and then just lastly, could I get the CapEx for the quarter?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We had $105 million in capital for the March quarter.   

ROBERT SEMPLE: Thanks.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob, can we have the next question?   

OPERATOR: That will be Gene Munster from Piper Jaffray.   

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Hey, good afternoon. I guess back to the component pricing question, you guys don't really have a history of passing on significant benefits of the price environment to your customers, obviously, the price environment might even increase a little bit for the component side, but is it safe to say if you essentially maintain your pricing of your products that you should be having margins kind of consistent? I know the mix is in there too, but gross margins consistent with that 35% level?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, Gene, for the June quarter, I've guided gross margins to 32%. While I'm doing that for June, I'd continue to target gross margin in the 27% to 28% range on a longer term basis, despite our recent results which have benefited from a number of factors including a very favorable commodity environment. Now looking forward, we are likely to see other factors which will drive gross margin down, such as a different commodity environment or product mix. We don't see the current gross margin levels as sustainable, and don't want you to count on them.   

GENE MUNSTER: I understand you don't want us to count on them, but from a theory basis, if the pricing does stay relatively low and you guys basically maintain the pricing of your products, I know you typically lower the price of the iPods once or twice a year, but just generally maintain the price of the products, could we draw the conclusion, let's say those factors happen that the margin should be higher than 32%?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, again, as I commented and Tim can add on, we see commodity pricing trending up in June. We are going to, we're now entering our education buying season. The June quarter tends to be more dominated by K-12, which tends to buy our lower ASP products and we have, in fact, re-priced our display line.   

GENE MUNSTER: That's good. One other quick question. Historically, you guys have a phenomenon of introducing a product and there being supply constraints, do you have any idea, I know the iPhone will come out in June, but do you think it will be widely available in June or is it going to be relatively a few units in June? Any color on that front?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Gene, it's very difficult to tell what the demand is until you're actually shipping the product. I think all of us have many anecdotal stories to tell, but there seems to be an enormous amount of people that are waiting for it and talking about it. We really need to start shipping and making the product available for sale before we can do a reasonable job of predicting demand.   

GENE MUNSTER: I'm sorry -- go ahead--   

TIMOTHY COOK: Go ahead.   

GENE MUNSTER: No, did  AT&T say they have about a million orders for the iPhone?   

TIMOTHY COOK:  AT&T is not taking orders. They have a million people who are interested that have signed up on their website.   

GENE MUNSTER: Let's just say this, do you think you could fulfill a million in the June quarter?   

TIMOTHY COOK: I haven't started ramp yet, so I don't want to predict what our supply would be.   

GENE MUNSTER: Great, thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: We'll go to  Lehman Brothers' Harry Blount.   

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks. Peter, I want to circle back on the subscription accounting again. At a high level, if we take the price points you guys have initially indicated of about $500 and take the 24-month straight-line, if you guys were to receive the entire hardware value of that, that's about $21 a month. First of all, I want to ask is that roughly the right number to assume per unit or $60 a quarter, or how much higher or lower in general should we be assuming for the hardware and the software? The hardware and the service I should say.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Harry, it will, on the iPhone hand set, the factors will relate to, we're going to ship two models, one at $499, one at $599. We're going to sell some direct and sell some indirect. Those are variables that you would want to think about. We also will sell accessories as I indicated and I expect to receive, as I said, as well, payments from  AT&T Cingular and we'll report those to you each quarter on our data summary.   

HARRY BLOUNT: And the accessories, though, will be accounted for on a period basis rather than a subscription basis, is that fair?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.   

HARRY BLOUNT: And, Peter, just in terms of a catch rate on the hardware, is there a good number to use? Should we assume an incremental $5 or so for the services?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Harry, I'm not able to make any comments beyond what I've said about the relationship with  AT&T, and we also plan to sell accessories with the iPhone as we do with our iPods.   

HARRY BLOUNT: On the cash balance of $15 billion from a shareholder perspective, it isn't a good use of capital, as you well know, to have that level of cash with low returns, so one of the things we've started to see with other tech companies is some leveraging of the balance sheet to buy back stock. Any plans to do anything with the cash at this point?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: First of all, we ended the March quarter with $12.6 billion in cash. I don't have a change in our position to share with you today. We continue to retain our cash for flexibility to invest in the business and we do discuss share buy back and other forms of returning cash to the shareholders with the board from time to time.   

HARRY BLOUNT: Sorry, I meant $15. Sorry about that. Lastly, back on the Apple TV subscription agreement, is this a prelude to actually moving to a subscription model per se to the end user? Is that why you're setting the stage for subscription accounting on the TV product at this time?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The reason we're going to also account for Apple TV on a subscription basis is we want to provide periodically to our customers software updates. We have a number of ideas for Apple TV. We'll provide those to customers as they become available. That's why we're doing this.   

HARRY BLOUNT: Thanks.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: This is a relatively new market, much like the iPod was a number of years ago. We're very excited about it, and over the future have a number of ideas.   

HARRY BLOUNT: Sure, but you don't charge for the iPod on a subscription basis, so anyway. All right, thanks.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Harry. Can we have the next question please?   

OPERATOR: We'll move to David Bailey with  Goldman Sachs.

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, great. Thank you. Two questions please. How should we think about the potential for pushouts for iPod in front of the iPhone launch as people try to decide between one product to the other. And in the same vein, how are you thinking about the impact the delay in Leopard might have on Mac sales in the June and September quarters?   

TIMOTHY COOK: David, it's Tim. On the iPod question, the only thing I can say for certain is that in the data last quarter there was no obvious effect from iPhone on iPod. We'll just have to see how this quarter goes. In terms of Leopard, we are shipping the best Macs we've ever shipped before. The upgrade to Leopard is very simple and straight forward to do. But I'm really not sure whether customers will delay or not.   

DAVID BAILEY: Okay, and then just kind of a related question. Given the amount of time between the iPhone announcement and the launch, does that give you any advantage as far as being able to ramp in volume before the end of June?   

TIMOTHY COOK: We've been focusing very heavily on the production capability of iPhone, and as you know we bring a lot of experience into this. We did 21 million iPods in the first fiscal quarter and so we've got that same level of expertise that we're putting in place for iPhone, but I wouldn't want to predict the, predict the ramp at this point.   

DAVID BAILEY: Okay, great. Thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David, could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Certainly. We'll go to Ben Reitzes with UBS.   

BENJAMIN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Couple questions. Are you going to take preorders for iPhone? Do you know yet, Peter, or Tim?   

TIMOTHY COOK: We're currently not taking them. We will announce later the date at which we'll begin taking orders.   

BENJAMIN REITZES: Okay, and typically your retail staff are kind of waiting for new products, much like we are, they don't know what's coming. With regard to the iPhone, is it different and are they going through training right now and/or soon to learn how to sell this whole new phone and whole new offering from Apple? Is there an investment on your part so they're ready on day 1? That's kind of unprecedented. Anything you can talk about would be helpful?   

TIMOTHY COOK: There's a number of things that are different. Generally speaking, as you know, we keep products very secret until they're announced. Sometimes that limits the amount of planning that can take place on the product. iPhone is uniquely different there in that we announced in January. The retail store personnel are putting a lot of energy into planning for the launch right now.   

BENJAMIN REITZES: Okay, so they'll be fully trained and aware of all the features right off day 1 and have it all ready to go is what you're saying, basically?   

TIMOTHY COOK: They're putting a lot of energy in getting ready for the launch.   

BENJAMIN REITZES: What about customer support on the back end? Is there significant investment that you guys are making right now? Do you think you'll have fully staffed support for the product on your end?   

TIMOTHY COOK: We have award winning support that we provide on the Mac and iPod, and we're going at the iPhone with the same rigor.   

BENJAMIN REITZES: Lastly, on Mac distribution, any updates with regard to the  Best Buy relationship. They said it was going up to 200. And you were at 10 Circuit Citys. Any more distribution partners you'd like to talk about or any progress you'd like to update us on?   

TIMOTHY COOK: As you pointed out, we started with  Best Buy with a half dozen or so stores. We then took it to over 50 and we've just announced taking it to over 200 which will take place by the fall. We're very, very excited to do that. We'll be doing some unique merchandising things with them that we're excited about.   

I don't have an update on Circuit City pilot. We are evaluating right now the results of it, and I believe we will be making a decision on that this quarter. In terms of overall Mac point of sales, we've been working on this worldwide and the Mac point of sales have moved from 5,800 to 8,000 on a year-over-year basis.   

BENJAMIN REITZES: Okay, lastly, have you seen any uptick in the Creative Professional segment yet from Adobe CS3, or is that still coming?   

TIMOTHY COOK: We do believe that our Pro customers have been stalling and delaying purchase. One key reason is the Creative suite. It just starting shipping, as you know. Generally speaking, what we've seen in the past in this area is that people, companies will buy a few units and test those and then subsequently do rollouts. It's really too early to tell what occurs in here. However, with the Creative suite shipping and the announcements that we made last week at NAD with Final Cut Studio and the announcements we made just a few weeks with the 8-core Mac Pro we believe that we have got an incredible lineup for our Pro customers and believe they will be very excited to get their hands on them.   

BENJAMIN REITZES: Thank you very much.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Certainly. We'll hear from Tony Sakanagi, Sanford Bernstein.   

TONY SAKANAGI, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes. Thank you. Typically your revenues from Q2 to Q3 are flat to slightly up. You're guiding for them to be down despite tremendous enthusiasm for the iPhone, for your Mac lineup, which you just mentioned, on the aforementioned question and your confidence in the iPod line. Can you talk about some of the puts and takes for revenue in your revenue guidance for next quarter?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Tony, this is Peter. We are guiding revenue down slightly, sequentially as a result of a couple factors. First, last year, iPod sales declined sequentially from the March to June quarters despite supply being constrained at the beginning of the March quarter. This year, we were not in good supply and demand balance in the March quarter, so we would expect to see a bigger sequential decline. We see this as a market seasonality issue -- excuse me -- and not an iPod specific issue. We are very pleased with our market share. Second, it's the beginning of the education buying season, which typically sees higher K-12 purchases in the June quarter and at lower ASPs.   

TONY SAKANAGI: Is the second point any different from normal seasonality though? In the sense that, don't you always see that, and, accordingly, if we're comparing this quarter versus previous quarters, why would that be any notably different?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: That is true, but really underneath this what you're seeing is that the June quarter is not as strong from a consumer perspective. We had a really strong March quarter. I think you may see a bit more pronounced effect this year going from March to June in part upon what we saw from the consumer sales in March and heading into the education buying season.   

TONY SAKANAGI: I also have a question about margins. I know historically you've qualitatively discussed about margins between relative categories in your business, so specifically on a qualitative basis, could you help us understand if iPod hardware margins, just the hardware portion of iPod was higher than your Mac hardware margins this quarter?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We have a long standing practice of not releasing specific gross margins, however, the corporate gross margin was over 35%, which exceeded our guidance. And iPod was key in achieving that result.   

TONY SAKANAGI: Can you, I understand your policy of not specific gross margins, but historically you've given a range, it was, obviously, much lower than it is now, at above or below 20% and you have made relative comments, so can you at least provide any further details on a relative basis, Peter?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: What I can tell you is that both our Mac and iPod hardware margins were quite strong in the quarter. They've both benefited from a very favorable commodity environment and, but also we had better service costs and leverage from the revenue and a good mix.   

TONY SAKANAGI: And then, finally, on the, on the R&D side, your revenues have been growing at about 20% a quarter. Your R&D expense has been remarkably flat for the last six quarters. Is there an inflection point or a bend where, particularly with some of the ostensible increased functionality that you're going to hope to bring in the form of software to both your Apple TV platform and your phone offerings? Should we be expecting an inflection point in R&D and why hasn't it gone up somewhat commensurately with sales, especially given all the new product initiatives that you have?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: First of all, we are very confident in not only in what we plan to do with iPhone and Apple TV, but also OS X and our applications. We have just fantastic folks in our software and hardware engineering areas. In the last quarter or so, we have capitalized our software development. I talked about that in my prepared remarks.   

So that played into this quarter. And the R&D as a percent of our revenue was 3% this quarter. It had been running at 4%, and without the capitalization you would have seen a trend that was similar to the past. The dollars are going up, just along with our revenue. We're going to continue to invest in our business, particularly in engineering and you'll continue to see our spending go up and I think continue to see just a great flow of products from the team.   

TONY SAKANAGI: Thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Tony. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Next question is from  Citigroup, Richard Gardner.   

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. I wanted to go back to the earlier question, Peter, on passing favorable component prices to customers. I realize it's been your longstanding practice to do this when you introduce new products, but I was wondering why you wouldn't make an exception in an environment like the one that we're in in the first quarter where you had dramatic declines in prices? Is it because you don't believe that there would be enough elasticity there to justify it or is it because of the intricacies of managing price protection and channel inventories and so forth? What is your strategy there?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Rich, it's Tim. We believe our products are very competitively priced. If you look at the Mac, we grew at 36% year-over-year, this is over three times the industry growth. If you look at it by geo it's even more incredible. The IDC was projecting a 4% growth rate for the U.S. We grew in the Americas at 36%. So nine to 10 times.   

IDC was projecting 5% for Europe, we grew at 38%. This is now the ninth quarter out of the past 10 that the Mac has grown over the market. The Mac seems to have enormous momentum. If you look at iPod and look at the share that we have. We're over 70% in the U.S., we're over 60% in Australia and Canada, we're over 50% in Japan and Hong Kong, and really growing on a year-over-year basis in most of Western Europe. We feel we're very competitively priced.   

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay, thank you, Tim.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich, could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: We'll hear  Merrill Lynch's Richard Farmer.   

RICHARD FARMER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. This is a little bit of a follow-up in variation on that question and gross margin question, but more specifically with respect to the iPod hardware business.   

When you talk about the factors affecting gross margin, you mentioned the education mix, the component pricing, and the display price cuts, but are there any other factors within the iPod hardware business specifically outside of the component price environment that you mentioned that would influence your gross margin guidance? I'm thinking of things like price changes, or feature capacity increases, or significant mix changes maybe within the iPod line that would cause your gross margin outlook to change outside of components? Thanks.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Richard, I'm sorry, I can't help you there. We have a longstanding practice of not talking about future products and I've given you my view of why I think gross margin will decline sequentially.   

RICHARD FARMER: Okay, thanks. That's all for me then.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Bill Shope with  JPMorgan, please go ahead.   

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Okay, thanks. Were there any significant changes in the mix between HDD and flash-based iPods this quarter versus last, and, obviously, I'm only looking for a qualitative answer there?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We don't get into reporting that level of product detail, but if you look at the ASPs from the December to the March quarter, you'll see they were relatively flat.   

BILL SHOPE: Okay, okay. And then on the new EMI deal you guys announced this quarter, assuming some of the other labels follow suit and you reach the target that Steve had mentioned for the end of the year for DRM-free music, will the economics of iTunes change in any way from a margin perspective given the increased price for higher quality tracks?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Our philosophy has been to run the music store just a little over break-even. We think that selling music, and now videos, helps us to sell iPods and accessories. And so that's been our strategy and Tim just walked you through some of the results and the growth that we've seen around the world in iPod. I think the strategy is working extremely well.   

BILL SHOPE: Okay, thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest. Please go ahead.   

WILLIAM FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST SECURITIES CORP.: Yes, good afternoon. Thanks. On the channel side, could you give an update on the direct sales versus the indirect mix, and then did the mix of direct versus indirect help margin in the quarter? And then I have a follow-up.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, the direct sales, which we define as sales through the retail stores, online, direct to education and enterprise customers and through the music store, was 50% in the quarter and that was reasonably close to our expectations.   

WILLIAM FEARNLEY: And then also on the iPod, if I could ask another question, you've been thinking about revenue by geography and the opportunity for iPod outside the United States, could you give some additional color on how the iPod did outside the U.S. and how it did versus your expectations and sort of the same thing for the Mac, as well? I see the revenue and things like that by geography, but if you could add additional color on the product side, even directionally, that'd be helpful?   

TIMOTHY COOK: I'll repeat some of the things I said before and then add a few other things. On sort of the Mac point of view, we're growing at a significant multiple of the market in the U.S., in Europe and in Asia Pacific. Asia Pacific is our fastest growing region. It grew at 89% year-over-year. The IDC projection for Asia Pacific was only 14%. That's over six times the market. I mentioned before the U.S. and Europe numbers, and so essentially in every major geography outside of Japan, the Mac is growing at a multiple of the market and not just for one quarter, but, in fact, a substantial number of quarters as I'd mentioned before.   

As we've gotten out of the  Intel transition, in fact, we've been over three times the market growth for the last three quarters. September was 30%, December was 28%, March was 36%. We're doing really, really well. On the iPod, like the Mac, we're doing very well outside the U.S.   

I covered briefly some of the share numbers, but we're now over 60% in Australia and Canada in share, we continue to be over 50% in Japan, we've now gone over 50% in Hong Kong, we are in the 40% to 50% range in the U.K., in Switzerland, in Singapore, in Denmark. We hit a high in Germany of 28% in the most recent numbers. So pretty much everywhere you look on a year-over-year basis, you would see really good progress. We are very pleased with it.   

WILLIAM FEARNLEY: Thanks, one more question on the Mac, if I could. Do you expect the Mac Pro to have a positive effect on Mac ASPs here in the upcoming quarter at all?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, we don't forecast ASPs or product level results, but as Tim commented, we're very excited about our new Mac Pro introduction and all the Apple and developer software that goes with it. So we certainly are expecting good things going forward.   

WILLIAM FEARNLEY: All right, thanks guys.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: We'll move to Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.   

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Hi. Thanks. I had a couple questions. First, follow-up on the earlier question about sort of the seasonality. I think over the last couple quarters, you've given some seasonality on both the iPod and the Macs.   

Maybe you could help us understand that a little bit better for the June quarter in terms of what the normal declines or increases would be? And also is the Leopard pushout any part of the reason why you might be being more cautious on the Mac side of things? And I have a follow-up.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. This is Peter. Let me start with your Mac and iPod question. For Macs, sales have typically increased from the March to June quarters, but at lower ASPs as a result of the education buying season beginning. The June quarter typically sees higher K-12 sales, while the September quarter tends to see stronger higher education sales. But the June and September quarters are really our bigger education selling seasons.   

For the iPod, as I commented before, the June quarter is usually seasonally the weakest from a consumer perspective. Last year we saw iPod sales decline sequentially from the March to June quarters despite there being some constraints in the beginning of the March quarter.   

This year we were in good supply and demand balance throughout the March quarter. So we'd expect to see a bigger sequential decline. But we view this as a seasonality issue and not an iPod specific issue. And as Tim has commented now twice, we couldn't be happier with our market share results.   

KEVIN HUNT: And the follow-up is, on the iTunes store, can you give us any kind of milestone update of where you stand on number of music and video downloads to date?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't have anything new to share with you beyond what we've recently put out and you can find that on the website. I'm sorry.   

KEVIN HUNT: Okay.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Certainly. We'll hear from Ingrid Ebeling with JMP Securities.   

INGRID EBELING, ANALYST,  JMP SECURITIES: Hi. Thank you. Couple things on the iPhone. Can you give an update on the timing of the iPhone outside the United States?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Yes. We still plan to be in Europe in the fourth calendar quarter of this year and we continue to plan to be in Asia in 2008.   

INGRID EBELING: Okay, great. And in terms of distribution in the U.S. with the iPhone, it will be exclusive with  AT&T Cingular and Apple, or will other Cingular partners be distributing the product such as Best Buys or Radio Shacks, or what not?   

TIMOTHY COOK: It will be sold through Cingular stores, the Cingular.com, Apple.com and Apple retail stores.   

INGRID EBELING: Okay, great. Can you please repeat the statistics you gave on market share for the iPods?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Sure, what I said was that the U.S. is over 70%, Australia and Canada are over 60%, Japan and Hong Kong are over 50%, the U.K., Switzerland, Singapore, and Denmark are over 40%. All of those data points are GFK data points, I think, with the exception of the U.S., which is MPD.   

INGRID EBELING: Great, thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ingrid. Can we have the next question, please?   

OPERATOR: Yes. The next question will come from [Ben Bowlen], Cleveland Research.   

BEN BOWLEN, ANALYST, CLEVELAND RESEARCH: Good afternoon. My first question, I was hoping to get a better understanding of the internal design strategy. Given the more favorable component pricing environment, substantial price declines you've seen in the NAN flash over the last several quarters, has that had an influence on how you look at product design and kind of what you look at in terms of introducing in the future?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Ben, as you know, we don't really comment on our future product plans.   

BEN BOWLEN: Okay, could you give us a read on what percent of industry music sales were digital in the quarter? I think last quarter it was around 11% or 12%.   

Could you say where that's trending now? And then as that grows as a percentage of total music sales, could you explain if there's any influence to the royalty rates you pay to the music companies?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We do not talk about our agreements with the music companies. So I'm sorry, we can't help you there. I've not seen the most recent quarters digital percent of total sales, but the trend is going up. Here in the United States our market share of legally purchased and downloaded music is over 85%. We're seeing very strong growth on the iTunes music store, I think, based upon its great merchandising and its seemless integration with the iPod.   

BEN BOWLEN: Okay, what was depreciation in the quarter?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't have that handy. Maybe Nancy can grab it. Why don't we go to the next question and I'll give it to you in the next answer.   

BEN BOWLEN: Thank you.   

NANCY PAXTON: Could we have the next question please?   

OPERATOR: We'll go to Shaw Wu with American Technology.   

SHAW WU, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INC.: Thanks. Just two questions. First on Japan. Japan continues to somewhat lag, it's been flat three quarters in a row. What's going on there, what are you going to do to address it? And then second, on your expenses, you're guiding, Peter, your guiding expenses up quite a bit sequentially. You talked about iPhone related expenses. A little more color in terms of what types of programs and promotions you plan to do there?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Shaw, it's Tim, in terms of Japan it is a very challenging market for us. The Japan PC market according to IDC would contract by 2% last quarter. That's identical to what we did in terms of iPod and the MP3 market, we've maintained an over 50% share for some time, however, the MP3 market itself isn't growing, so our units as a consequence are growing very small single-digit.   

That coupled with an ASP decline in iPod produces a negative revenue compare year-over-year. We have a number of things going with the channels on merchandising, we're running Macintosh, the Mac PC ad on television, so we have a series of things that we're doing to try to turn things around. It is literally the only major market in the world that we're not doing well in. It is very frustrating.   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay, Shaw, let me first answer Ben's question, the depreciation and amortization in the March quarter was about $69 million. In terms of OpEx, we remain very confident in our business and products. We're continuing to invest for long-term growth, including this quarter in the launching of the iPhone in late June and Apple TV this past quarter. We are increasing spending in our engineering areas, our retail stores, and also increasing other marketing and advertising programs, and, of course, seeing some increased expenses related to the higher revenue and stock-based compensation.   

SHAW WU: Okay. Thanks.   

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks much. We have time for one more question. The last question today will come from Chris Whitmore, Deutsche Bank.   

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, it looks like Mac channel inventory levels were down a bit versus last quarter. Can you quantify the impact of that inventory reduction on Mac unit sales during the quarter? And, secondly, is there any reason why you're taking those inventory levels down?   

TIMOTHY COOK: Chris, we started the quarter in the three to four week range. We ended in the three to four week range and the absolute number of units were very similar from beginning to end.   

CHRIS WHITMORE: I apologize, I must have had a bad piece of data there from last call. Second question relates to cash margins on iPhone versus the Company average or versus the iPod. Is it fair to say that you expect the iPhone to have higher cash margins than the core business?   

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're not making financial projections at an individual product line and, Chris, we've not yet shipped the product. So we're very excited about iPhone and bringing our great hardware and software design capabilities to this market. We believe that we can really delight customers and we can't wait to launch the products and have customers get their hands on it.   

NANCY PAXTON: Okay, thanks Chris. A replay of today's call will be available as a podcast on the iTunes store, as a webcast on Apple.com/investor, and via telephone.   

The number for the telephone replay is 719-457-0820. Confirmation code is 8958004. These replays will be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today.   

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan's at 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks, again, for joining us.   

OPERATOR: Once again, thank you all for joining us today. That does conclude the presentation. Have a great afternoon.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070502e34p0016a
  


 HD
 Q3  2006 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,759 words
   PD
19 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Apple Computer third-quarter financial results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the conference over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.  

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer. And he will be joined by Apple's COO, Tim Cook, and Apple Treasurer, Gary Wipfler, for the Q&A session with analysts.  

   TD
Please note that some of the information you will hear during our discussion today may consist of forward-looking statements regarding revenue; gross margin; operating expenses; other income and expense; taxes; earnings per share; future products; non-cash, stock-based compensation expense and a special committee investigation relating to the Company's past stock option grants. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2005, the Form 10-Q for the first and second fiscal quarters of 2006, and our Form 8-K filed with the SEC today.  

Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed is posted on Apple's website at  www.Apple.com/investor .  

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're very pleased to report the second-highest quarterly revenue and earnings in Apple's history. The quarter's revenue was 4.37 billion, representing 24% year-over-year growth. The strong revenue was fueled by the best Mac unit sales in any 13 week quarter in Apple's history and continued healthy demand for our music products.  

Operating margin for the quarter was 13%, and net income was 472 million or $0.54 per diluted share on a GAAP basis. Excluding the impacts of 37 million in non-cash, stock-based compensation expense, operating margin was 13.8%, net income was 499 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.57. The quarter's robust operating margin was attributable to the revenue growth, a very favorable component environment and solid expense management.  

I would like to first talk about our Mac products, which represented 55% of our total quarterly revenue. Mac product revenue increased 11% year over year, fueled by Mac unit shipment growth of 12% year over year to 1.327 million. Ending channel inventory was within our target range of four to five weeks.  

We continue to be very happy with our progress and our developers' progress in the transition to Intel. We've now introduced the iMac, MacBook, MacBook Pro and Mac mini with Intel processors. We're solidly on track to transition the PowerMac and Xserve by the end of this calendar year.  

We have released universal versions of Apple's consumer and professional software applications, and our third-party developers have released over 2,900 universal applications. We expect that over 70% of the 500 applications we consider most critical to our customers will be available in universal versions by the end of September. We've been very pleased with the response to our new Macs, particularly from our consumer and education customers.  

Intel-based Macs accounted for over 75% of the quarter's Mac shipments. The MacBook, which we introduced in mid-May, has been extremely well-received and coupled with our very popular MacBook Pro has contributed to Apple's increased unit market share of portables in US retail from 6% in January to 12% in June according to NPD.  

We are also very happy with our Mac ad campaign and feel it's contributing to our momentum, particularly with consumers. We believe that many of our creative professional customers have delayed purchases, as they await new Intel-based Mac desktops, universal applications or both.  

Our music products posted another quarter of strong results, representing 45% of total Company revenue and increasing 45% year-over-year. IPod shipments grew 32% year over year consistent with our expectations, and we exited the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks of iPod channel inventory. We continue to be very enthusiastic about iPod. Based on the latest data published by NPD, iPod accounts for over 75% of the US market for MP3 players. IPod is also the top-selling MP3 player in many large markets, such as Canada, Australia, the UK, France, Spain, Italy and Japan according to the latest data published from NPD, GfK and BCN.  

Other music product revenue was 457 million, up 90% year over year. These results were a function of continued strong sales from the iTunes Music Store and very solid performance for iPod accessories. The iTunes Music Store continues to lead the industry, accounting for 85% share of the market for legally purchased and downloaded music in the US based on the latest data available from Nielsen SoundScan. We have continued to enhance and expand the iTunes Music Store, now offering over 3 million songs, 9,000 music videos and over 150 television programs to the US market.  

We're investing heavily in iPod and iTunes engineering and are very enthusiastic about our products in the pipeline. The iPod ecosystem continues to thrive with innovative new products, such as the Nike+iPod Sport Kit, which allows runners to get real-time feedback on their performance through their iPod nanos.  

It was another exciting quarter for the Apple retail stores. Fueled by very strong sales of MacBooks and MacBook Pros, the retail stores generated revenue of 715 million, representing 29% year-over-year growth. The stores generated 29 million in segment profit, excluding 148 million in associated manufacturing profit. We opened 14 stores during the quarter, ending with 155. With an average of 146 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was 4.9 million. Store traffic continued to be very strong with over 17 million customers visiting our stores during the quarter. Based on the latest retail store survey, nearly 50% of customers buying Macs in our stores are new to the Mac.  

One of the highlights of the quarter was the opening of our 5th Avenue store in Manhattan. The store has quickly become our highest volume store, and we recently welcomed the store's 500,000th visitor. Customers are visiting the store in record numbers around the clock.  

We were very pleased with our education business results, generating the highest quarterly revenue through our US education channel in over 10 years and shipping more Macs than in any other June quarter in the Company's history. Our higher education customers have been extremely receptive of the MacBook and MacBook Pro, and our back-to-school promotion has already proven very popular with customers.  

In terms of geographic results, including sales from our retail stores, quarterly revenue in the Americas, Europe and Japan was up 27%, 22% and 13% respectively. Gross margin was 30.3% on a GAAP basis -- about 190 basis points higher than our guidance, primarily due to a very favorable component pricing environment and secondarily due to a more favorable mix of direct Mac sales.  

Included in GAAP cost of goods sold was 6 million in stock-based compensation expense. Excluding that expense, non-GAAP gross margin was 30.4%. GAAP operating expenses were 759 million, including 31 million in expense related to stock-based compensation. OI&E was 95 million, about 10 million higher than guidance, primarily due to higher-than-expected cash balances and higher-than-expected yields on cash investment.  

The tax rate for the quarter was just under 29%. This differed from our previous tax rate guidance of about 32%, primarily due to a tax benefit recorded for the implementation of tax planning strategy associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act but more than offset a tax charge reported for the repatriation. This resulted in a net benefit in the quarter of 24 million or $0.03 per diluted share.  

We had very strong cash generation during the quarter, increasing our cash balance by 950 million to end with about 9.2 billion. This was primarily a function of cash flow from operations at just over $1 billion.  

Looking ahead to the September quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, we're targeting revenue between 4.5 and 4.6 billion. We expect the total quarterly cost of non-cash, stock-based compensation to be approximately $40 million. We expect GAAP gross margins to be about 28.4%, reflecting approximately 6 million related to stock based compensation expense. Without that expense, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be about 28.5%.  

We expect GAAP OpEx to be about 785 million, including about 34 million related to stock based compensation. We expect non-GAAP OpEx to be about 751 million. We expect OI&E to be about 100 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 32%. We expect to generate GAAP EPS of about $0.46 to $0.48, which includes an anticipated $0.03 per share related to non-cash, stock-based compensation expense. We expect non-GAAP EPS to be about $0.49 to $0.51.  

We are thrilled to have just reported the second-highest revenue and earnings in Apple's history and are very pleased with our Intel transition progress. We are also very excited about and confident in the products in our pipeline. With that, I would like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Andrew Neff, Bear Stearns.  

ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I guess if you could talk to the extent you can about how you are viewing I guess the balance of the year. In the press release, you talk about exciting new pipeline of iPod products. And there's a lot of concern obviously out there about what sort of plans you have. I guess the question is, how important is it for you to hit the holiday season? Is that in your expectations as you look out at the balance of the year and how innovative can innovative be?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You know that we don't talk about unannounced products. So, there's really a limit to what I can say. I will just tell you two things. The first is, we are very confident in the products in our pipeline. And I just don't imagine that the creativity of Apple could ever be low.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Just a question on your gross margin guidance and sort of how you're going to position -- well, you can't talk about that, so let's talk about gross margin guidance. It looks like there's a substantial decrease quarter over quarter relative to where you came in. Are we to assume more price aggressiveness and mix shift on the product side is driving that, or do you anticipate a big change in the commodity market environment? And also, if you can just talk about what you're seeing in commodities in general?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will start generally, and Tim can provide some further color on the commodity environment. We expect the favorable commodity environment to continue and have guided our non-GAAP gross margins at 28.5%, which is above our historical target range. We expect the gross margin percent to decline sequentially, largely driven by a full quarter of the back-to-school promotion; lower international pricing from our June price reductions; and a different product mix, including more MacBooks from the full quarter of availability.  

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE COMPUTER: This is Tim. As Peter said earlier, the component pricing was very favorable in Q3. It was favorable across almost all categories. It was a great time to be a buyer. In terms of the quarter that we are now in in Q4 -- and this is included in the guidance that Peter gave earlier -- we expect that we will continue to have a favorable environment on NAND Flash, on flat-panel displays, on portable hard drives -- all of which those areas are places where supply exceeds demand in the broader industry. On the DRAM market, we expect it to be relatively balanced and so the prices to trade within a fairly narrow range.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Could you talk, Peter and maybe Tim, about the economic environment consumer versus education in particular? And maybe give us a view of what you're seeing out there in the economy and given some other worries out there?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We will let Tim talk a little bit about some of our markets, and Gary then will give you a few thoughts on the economy.  

TIM COOK: In terms of what we saw across the quarter, once we announced the MacBook and began shipping it, we saw very robust consumer and higher education demand. In the Pro markets, we were slow and we were slow because we believed that customers are delaying purchases, waiting on a PowerMac with an Intel chip in it and in some cases waiting for applications, such as Adobe's Creative Suite.  

The ed market had a fabulous quarter. It was the best June quarter in 10 years, as Peter said earlier. We grew 11% year over year in the ed market versus an IDC projection of the ed market, which was shrinking by 4%. The higher ed market, which is a subset of total ed market, grew 31% year over year. So, we had a very fabulous consumer and higher education market season. We believe that we are very well-poised going into the back-to-school season with the MacBook being so well-received and also the promotion that we're running with the nano. Gary?  

GARY WIPFLER, TREASURER, APPLE COMPUTER: I'm going to speak a little bit more generally. From the data we have seen, the US economy and the consumer are holding up pretty well in the face of all this stuff -- the geopolitical uncertainty and the higher oil prices and energy prices and higher interest rates. But that said and most of you are aware Fed Chairman Bernanke made a few comments this morning suggesting or intimating the economy and consumer was beginning to moderate a little.  

BEN REITZES: But I guess based on Tim's comments, you might not be seeing that yet. Just one last thing is -- some of the -- you came in above at least my expectations for iPods and Macs but not in some of the other things like other music, peripherals and other. Granted the year-over-years were decent on some of those, but was there anything holding those back? Was there anything in particular going on in other music or peripherals?  

I would've thought with more Mac sales, that line might have done a little better sequentially. It looks like the quarter could have even been even more impressive because I think the iPod/Macs overall were pretty good. So, could you just comment there?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: On the software side, the comparison there is to the launch quarter Tiger a year ago. So it's very, very difficult to compare. And sequentially, we had iLife announced in Q2.  

On the peripherals and other hardware category, we have integrated more and more things that were in peripherals before into the Macintosh itself and shipped it as part of the base configuration. The other music-related products and services piece, basically a 6% decline sequentially, tracked to the iPod itself.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman, Banc of America.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: I have a question. The retail side -- there was some volatility between this quarter and last quarter in terms of both the units and revenues and was just hoping you could speak to that a little bit and I have a follow-up. Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, units and our Macs in retail were up 40% year over year. The response in the stores to both the MacBook and MacBook Pro was very, very strong. As I indicated, about half the Macs we sold were to people that had never owned a Mac before.  

KEITH BACHMAN: So, Peter, just to be clear, was most of that delta if you will between the March quarter and the June quarter of units up 50% this quarter? And total at retail versus 7 last quarter, was that disproportionately driven by the new Mac notebooks?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We had much more availability of our Intel-based Macs, yes. As we said in the last call in the March quarter, Ron really began to focus from January at Macworld on the Intel transition. And we didn't have products in January in particular. So, with our having availability not only of the MacBook Pro and Intel-based Mac but now the MacBook, he had just a fantastic quarter in the stores, not only with Mac sales but just sales in general.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Peter, you've mentioned what the average revenue was per store for the average store opened. Could you refresh us on what that was last quarter? Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will have to follow up with you. I don't recall what last quarter was. Sorry.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Robert Semple, Credit Suisse.  

ROBERT SEMPLE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Can you walk me through the revenue outlook? If you take the midpoint of it, I know it's similar to what you did last year. But last year, you guys were taking down inventories on the iPod side for I guess both the nano and the eventual video launch. Historically, you've been up a little bit more seasonally than that in September. Can you just kind of walk me through the thought process there?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Our guidance for the September quarter actually is consistent with our past seasonality. And our range represents growth of 22 to 25% over last year. Again, last year -- the last year September quarter was the best Mac sales quarter we had in education in 10 years.  

ROBERT SEMPLE: Then just switching gears to iPod, I noticed ASP was off about $15 sequentially. Is that more of a mix issue, or was it because you started the kind of back-to-school free iPod with the Mac a little bit earlier than you did last year?  

TIM COOK: The main thing that drove that was the introduction in Q2 of the 1 gigabyte nano for 149. And so in Q3, we had a full quarter of that.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Harry Blount, Lehman Brothers.  

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Peter, just in terms of Leopard, are you assuming anything -- any contribution from Leopard in the September quarter for the margins?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry for the September quarter?  

HARRY BLOUNT: Yes.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We've not announced the ship dates for Leopard. Our Developers Conference begins on August 7, next month. And we look forward to talking about Leopard and showing you many of the new features.  

HARRY BLOUNT: In terms of the retail performance, if I look at revenue per walk-in customer and revenue per store, I'm looking at revenue per walk-in customer is down for the sixth consecutive quarter on a year-over-year basis. I'm wondering if you have a sense as to why that might be. And also on the same-store sales, we're also seeing that down year over year the last two quarters.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Right. Traffic to the stores has just been phenomenal. We had over 17 million people come through the stores this past quarter. And as I said in my prepared remarks, our 5th Avenue store has seen over 500,000 people since it's been open in May. The average store sales were down slightly year over year, but our total revenue from the stores is up about 29%. The average store revenue was down, a result of iPod sales being relatively flat year over year as we have had a greatly-expanded channel. But our Mac sales continue to increase and we are up 50% year over year.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Then, Peter, last thing on the housekeeping side of the equation, can you maybe give us a sense of how many distribution points you have for both the iPod and the Mac and then also a rough sense as to how many of the Macs sold in the quarter were tied to the iPod promotion. Thanks.  

TIM COOK: On the iPod side, we have close to 40,000 distribution points, which is up slightly from the previous quarter as we have added a few select resellers around the world. On the Macintosh, we have about 7,000 points of sale. We're conducting some pilots to potentially expand that. But we are not making any announcements today about that in terms of the promotion we started back in the beginning of June. And so, there were not a significant number of those within the quarter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Richard Farmer, Merrill Lynch.  

RICHARD FARMER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Peter, I would like to ask a couple of questions on gross margins please. In the past, you've commented at least qualitatively on the iPod hardware gross margin. I wonder if you can provide any color there on how much that might have changed sequentially and year over year. The same question as it would relate to the Mac hardware in gross margin change.  

And then finally, just a broader question on your philosophy and gross margin management longer-term. It seems like historically, you've been managing a little bit more to lower the prices or increase the feature set so that the gross margins were more stable and that the upside in gross margins was quickly put back into price to stimulate growth. This quarter and some other recent data points, it seems like you are managing more for margin leverage -- understand the component cost had something to do with that.  

But if you look longer-term, are you making a decision here to manage the Company more for margin leverage, or should we think of you as investing a lot of that back into features and price so that the margin leverage we're seeing is more temporary?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: In terms of product gross margins, we have a long-standing practice of not releasing specific gross margins -- however -- specific product gross margins. However, the iPod gross margin was up sequentially in the June quarter, and that was really attributable to the very favorable commodity environment. The Mac products participated in that too.  

Now as regard to our philosophy, I think we are very competitive today, both on our Mac products and iPod. We will continue to be aggressive with both our pricing and our feature and function. You know I -- from a long-term perspective, we're not putting out a financial model but I would target gross margin generally in the 27 to 28 some range. And I've discussed with you in the past the factors that add and subtract to that. The primary positive factors include direct sales, where we retain the channel margin as well as software and AppleCare and accessories. The primary adverse factors to gross margin are hardware, including iPod.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Richard Gardner, Citigroup.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just two quick questions -- first of all, Tim, I was hoping you might be able to give us a sense of supply/demand balance on the MacBook exiting the quarter. And secondly, also for Tim, does the fact that Intel rolls out new chips and drops prices more frequently than your prior processor partners require, does it create additional challenges for you on the inventory management front? Will you be rolling your products more frequently and adjusting the prices more frequently as the bill of materials comes down? Or will you do it the same way that you have done historically, which is adjust your prices at the time of new product introductions? Thank you.  

TIM COOK: In regards to the MacBook, we shipped a significant number of MacBooks, particularly in the month of June. However, despite that, we did exit the quarter with some backlog. We're working very hard to fulfill that backlog during this quarter. For the full quarter, I don't envision having a supply issue that would [gate] that.  

In terms of Intel, we are very pleased to be working with Intel. They have been a great partner for us. We feel that they have the best processor by far for us to use in the products that we both want to make and are currently shipping. Frankly, I'm pleased that there are new products coming out there and that we can change over time. As you know, we don't discuss unannounced products. So, I really wouldn't want to go into our philosophy about when we would roll with them and how we might change pricing.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Bill Fearnley, FTN Midwest Securities.  

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST SECURITIES: Just a follow-up question on the iPod units. What was the effect of the Major in Mac promo being moved up in June? Was that significant to contributing to the iPod units for the quarter?  

TIM COOK: It was not significant.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Then on the iPod ASPs, how should we be thinking about the blended ASPs going forward for the category? Should we be thinking that they should stay within the range they've been the last few quarters?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry; that's a question we can't answer. We don't provide product level forecast.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Then on the direct versus indirect mix, could you give additional color on that as well? Then that's it; thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. In the quarter, our direct sales, which we define as sales through our retail, stores, online stores directly to customers and the iTunes Music Store were 50% in the June quarter, up from 44% in the March quarter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Could we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Rebecca Runkle, Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Two questions -- first on retail distribution, can you just confirm what pilots you're currently running and have underway and when approximately they began? And I have a quick follow-up.  

TIM COOK: The main one that we are running right now is with Best Buy. We are in a few of their stores -- half of which have Apple people selling product and half of which don't. We're working with Best Buy to evaluate those results. We have been doing that for about two months.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And nothing else currently underway?  

TIM COOK: Not with a major partner. We have some select things that are of a smaller nature.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Perfect. Then, I guess, Peter, if we were to go back and look at historical OS launches, will you give us some color in terms of the impact and trending that you saw in the business, perhaps look at it the quarter before an OS release, what types of variations did you see in the business as a result? And then, during the quarter of the OS release, what types of trends did you see?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You mean for the OS sales itself?  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Just in terms of how the OS has trended but then also how it has impacted the overall business. I'm trying to get to holistically how we should be thinking about historical OS releases and how they have impacted the business model broadly speaking.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: First of all, when we released Tiger in the June quarter a year ago, our revenues from Tiger in that quarter from shrink-wrap and license sales -- so not including any allocation for what would've been on a Mac -- was $100 million in the quarter. Your first-quarter sales are always your best. We certainly think that Mac OS X is the best operating system. I think it's a part of -- along with our design, our transition to Intel, our retail stores and other great channel partners are why the Mac has been growing so well and we've been gaining share.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Just to qualify, in the quarter before historical releases, did you typically see any slowdown in CPU sales in anticipation of the new OS?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, that's really hard to --  

REBECCA RUNKLE: I know that's subjective (multiple speakers) --  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: -- to evaluate. The software sales are the best at the front end of a release, and over time they're still good. Our OS sales even in the June quarter were good. But they're not what they are in the first quarter of launch.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Jonathan Hoopes, ThinkEquity.  

JONATHAN HOOPES, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY: Looking at the unit shipment levels between the Mac desktops and the notebooks, are we to understand then that the divergence was mainly a function of the Pro community not having products there to upgrade into, or was it a function of the education? And then as we move forward into the September education period, do you expect desktops to regain some strength there?  

TIM COOK: The main thing affecting desktops frankly are the compelling notebooks that we announced. So as the market is moving more to notebooks, Apple is leading the way. With the incredible announcements that we had with the MacBook Pro in Q2 and in the MacBook in Q3, there was just a very compelling reason to buy a laptop.  

On the desktop side, the comparison there would be on a Pro business that is clearly slower than a year ago as people await a PowerMac with an Intel chip and/or an application from a third-party developer. The other thing that was happening was the eMac was really at a close to an end of life last quarter. So sales on that were not as robust as they were a year ago.  

JONATHAN HOOPES: Do you have an idea as to how long a Pro user typically waits before they upgrade? Are they more of a wait-and-see, or do you believe you have a wait list for Pro users on an Intel refresh?  

TIM COOK: I believe that Pro users act like other users, and there is a high standard deviation between different types of segments of them. You would not want to estimate what the average of those would be.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Chris Whitmore, Deutsche Bank.  

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just a follow-up on the last question. Is there any way you can provide a percentage of desktops to the Pro market, both in the June quarter of '06 and compare that to the June quarter of '05 just so we can get a feel as to the size of that market? Then secondly, is there any way you can quantify the missed sales due to supply constraints on the MacBook business?  

TIM COOK: On the size of the market, we do not disclose size of market numbers. And frankly, it's very hard to conclude exactly what they are because we sell both directly and indirectly. So that would be very hard to do. What was your second question?  

CHRIS WHITMORE: Hoping to get a quantification of the notebook upside missed due to supply constraints or the size of the backlog.  

TIM COOK: We did ship a significant amount in June. We left with some backlog, but we're continuing to ship obviously in this month and view that will not be an issue for this quarter.  

CHRIS WHITMORE: To ask that first question a second way, can you provide us a percentage of shipments that were PowerMacs in each of those quarters?  

TIM COOK: Yes, we release things at desktop and portable level.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, JPMorgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I believe last quarter, you noted that you get more aggressive with marketing efforts overseas for the iPod. Can you give us some comment on the progress you may have seen in this arena throughout the quarter?  

TIM COOK: We did get more aggressive. We had put more energy outside the US as we had the supply capability to do that. And as a consequence, we saw share gains in several countries in Europe, including the UK and Spain and Italy and France. And we're very pleased with that. Also, through the month of May, BCN has reported that we have stayed north of 50% share in Japan as well. So we appear to be making good progress.  

BILL SHOPE: Then one more question, I'm not sure if it's too early to ask this one yet. But have you been able to gather any data to help you understand if Boot Camp is actually stimulating Mac switchers?  

TIM COOK: We released the beta in April. The number of downloads that we've had are significant, and the customer feedback that we have had on Boot Camp is very, very good. It's clear that for a Windows user that is considering switching to a Mac, that it makes it even more appealing to them to switch.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Kevin Hunt, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: I had a couple of additional follow-ups on the gross margin question. First of all, in the response to someone asking about why gross margin guidance was down 200 basis points, it sounded to me like you said everything was going to be the same as this quarter. So I guess I'm still not clear why it would be down 200 basis points.  

And then secondly, in terms of the Intel transition on the Mac side, can you talk about how -- what indirect impact that might be having, moving to an Intel chip rather than your historical chips and also whether that Intel -- using the Intel's chipsets essentially lower any other kind of component cost that are used within the PC?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Again, so the reason that we're guiding gross margin down is we will see a full quarter impact of the back-to-school promotion. It was a very aggressive promotion, where with a purchase of a qualifying Mac and an iPod nano, a customer can get a rebate for the iPod nano. We lowered our international pricing towards the end of the quarter as a result of the weakening in the dollar. And we expect a different product mix, including more MacBooks, from having a full quarter of availability. And I don't think we have really any comments on our Intel-based product gross margins.  

KEVIN HUNT: Is that a positive factor or a negative factor? Can you at least say that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Again, we don't have a comment.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Charles Wolf, Needham & Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: I have a question about the music model. I was wondering if the actions of some European countries, most notably France, pose any threat to Apple's music model.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We believe that the -- any legislation that requires the sharing of DRMs will result in state-sponsored piracy, which will we think cause artists to disallow their works to be sold digitally just as the market is beginning to grow. And we hope that the countries will let the extremely competitive marketplace driven by consumer choice decide which players and online music stores are offered to customers.  

CHARLES WOLF: Yes, I have one quick follow-up. Will there be any surprises at the Developers Conference?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You will have to come and attend.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Shaw Wu, American Technology Research.  

SHAW WU, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH: Just some questions on your Japan business. It was down sequentially double digit for the second quarter in a row but up on a year-over-year basis. I am just wondering if that is -- is Japan performing up to your expectations? And then just some comments on the executive departure there. Thanks.  

TIM COOK: In the PC market in Japan, sequentially the markets is generally down 15% or so and so the sequential performance isn't surprising. In addition to that, we took some number of units out of the channel in hi-fi. On a year-over-year basis if you look at Japan and you combine it with our retail stores that are in Japan, we were up 13%. That 13% is lower than the Company average of 24, and we're not happy about that. And so we're continuing to look for and seek improvements in the business in Japan.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Regarding the change, we mutually agreed on [his] resignation, which has already occurred. Our Japan marketing team will continue to report directly to Phil Schiller in Cupertino. And Phil will take the interim position to lead our overall marketing in Japan.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.  

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: A couple of international questions. First, if you look at the success you had in the US, it really hasn't rolled out internationally. I think you went over some of the growth rates and it seemed a little bit less in Europe and Asia. What is the big issue? Is it just a price point issue or maybe you can address if you think about expanding the Apple brand globally and a follow-up question.  

TIM COOK: If you look at Europe as an example, Europe revenue was up 21% year over year; that compares to the Company average of 24. If you combine it with the retail segment or the groups of the stores that we have in Europe, it was up 22 compared to the Company average 24. And so Europe is very close.  

When we deploy a new product -- and in this case, we deployed MacBook as you know -- it takes longer to deploy a new product into Europe than it does the US. So in the first quarter generally speaking, Europe would be -- would get less advantage of a new product. And I think that's the primary difference in the growth rate in Europe. Japan, we just spoke about.  

GENE MUNSTER: What about even markets like the markets that aren't talked much about, like South America and Central America and things like this? You just don't seem to really have much of a footprint at all, and these are obviously big markets.  

TIM COOK: The growth rate that we had in Latin America last quarter was tremendous; it almost doubled. However, we can always improve in the absolute level of revenue in that area and we're focused on doing that.  

GENE MUNSTER: Then a specific question just in terms of iPod sales in Europe for the quarter, can you just give us any sort of indication? Did the growth rate accelerate or was it stable or decline a little bit, just some general themes around iPod growth in Europe?  

TIM COOK: We don't release iPod shipments on a geographic basis.  

GENE MUNSTER: Can you address it if some of the legislative issues in France or potentially some of the things going on with Sony Ericsson and some of their new products, is that -- are you seeing an impact from any of those?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I haven't seen an impact from the Sony products that I can comment on. And as I said -- I answered this for Charlie, but we just think and hope that the governments will let the extremely competitive marketplace driven by customer choice decide which players and which online music stores are offered to consumers.  

GENE MUNSTER: But it's safe to say that you haven't seen an impact from either of those to the best of your knowledge, Peter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I have not looked specifically at Sony, so I don't want to comment on that.  

GENE MUNSTER: I guess just conceptually some of the things that Sony is doing, what are your thoughts on that? Obviously, it had tremendous growth with the Sony Walkman phone. When you guys step back and see some of that success, what do you even think about?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we are very confident in our ability to compete in the marketplace. And we're very excited about what we have in the product pipeline, and you know that I can't comment on that. As regards cell phones, we don't think that the phones that are available today make the best music players. We think the iPod is. But over time, that is likely to change. And we're not sitting around doing nothing.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: David Bailey, Goldman Sachs.  

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Similar to what you've done on the Mac side, have you done any studies on what percentage of iPod sales are to existing owners? And to go along with that, what are you doing to drive sales into your installed base between product cycles?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm not aware of studies or data that we have in that regard. In terms of what are we doing -- great marketing, offering great points of presence around the world both in our retail stores and online and through our channel partners, and offering customers what we think is the absolute best products in the marketplace in not only the iPod but the iTunes Music Store. I think the market share that we command around the world supports that.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Steve Lidberg, Pacific Crest Securities.  

STEVE LIDBERG, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: First with regards to the MacBook, it seemed like you had shipments relatively within equilibrium exiting the June quarter in terms of supply. And I guess relative to the online store now, you are showing a wait time of five to seven days. Can you give us some insight into what that is related to?  

Then as an additional question, Peter, with regards to I guess the last couple of your quarters, you stated and highlighted the strength in the product pipeline. Yet really from a product introduction standpoint, what we've seen has been relatively well anticipated, i.e., the Intel transition devices. Is there some challenges on the execution side of the R&D pipeline, or how should we think about that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I have high confidence in the team here at Apple. We remain very confident in and excited about the products in our pipeline and look forward to the future.  

TIM COOK: On MacBook, we're working very hard to fill our backorders on MacBook.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks to everyone for joining us today. A recording of today's call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days, beginning at 5 PM Pacific Time today. The number for the replay is 719-457-0820, and the confirmation code is 1069240. A replay of the audio webcast of this call will also be available, beginning at approximately 5 PM Pacific Time today at  www.Apple.com/investor . And members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570, and I am at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, everyone. That does conclude today's conference. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060802e27j00237
  


 HD
 Q2  2006 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,616 words
   PD
19 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Apple Computer second quarter financial results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton: Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.  

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR IR & CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Speaking today is Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by Apple COO Tim Cook, and Apple treasurer Gary Whipfler for the Q & A session with analysts. Apple's second quarter spans 13 weeks compared to the 14 weeks spanned by our first quarter this year.  

   TD
Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, earnings per share, Apple's retail initiatives, demand for Macintosh computers, future products, including Intel-based Macs and non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's Form 10-K for 2005 as well as the Form 10-Q for the first fiscal quarter.  

Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed will be posted on Apple's website at  www.apple.com/investor . In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the internet.  

And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER: Thank you Nancy. Thank you for joining us.  

We are very pleased to report March quarter results that exceeded our guidance for both revenue and earnings. The quarter's revenue of $4.36 billion was the second highest in Apple's history, topped only by our record December quarter results and grew 34% year-over-year. These results were driven by continued strong growth in our Music business and solid performance in our Mac business during the transition to Intel. Operating margin for the quarter was 12.1%, and net income was $410 million, or $0.47 per diluted share on a GAAP basis.  

Excluding the impact of 42 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense, operating margin was 13.1%, net income was 440 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.50. The quarter's non-GAAP operating margin was the second-best ever for Apple and demonstrates the leverage in our business model. I'd like to first talk about our Mac business, which represented 50% of our total quarterly revenue, and increased 7% year-over-year. Mac units were up 4% year over year to 1.11 million, and ending channel inventory was within our target range of 4 to 5 weeks.  

We continued to be very happy with our progress in the Intel transition. We have introduced the Mac Pro, new iMac and new Mac mini with Intel processors and we are solidly on track to have the entire Mac product line transitioned by the end of this calendar year. In January, we indicated that we have seen a pause in customer demand in the December quarter, as customers began to anticipate the introduction of the Intel Mac. And we said that we were factoring the transition into our guidance for the March quarter.  

As we anticipated, this pause was even more evident during the March quarter and was generally observed in three areas: First, we announced the MacBook Pro at MacWorld and began to ship in late February, which limited the number of shipping weeks in the quarter. Second, we observed purchasing delays as some customers are waiting for the remainder of our product announcements. Third, while developer progress on universal applications has been excellent, we believe some customers are delaying purchasing until certain universal applications are available. Customer and industry analyst feedback on the new Intel-based products has been very positive. And we're very enthusiastic about the additional Intel-based Macs that we will be introducing this year.  

We have released universal versions of Apple software including iLife, iWorks, QuickTime, Final Cut Studio, Aperture, and Logic. Our third party developers are making excellent progress with our transitions as well, with over 1500 universal applications currently available and commitments from key developers such as Adobe and Microsoft. Our Music business posted another quarter of very strong results, representing 50% of total company revenue and increasing 79% year over year. iPod shipments grew 61% year over year, and we have cumulatively shipped over 50 million. We exited the quarter within our target range of four to six weeks for iPod channel inventory.  

Other Music product revenue was 485 million, up 125% year over year, and about flat sequentially with the 14-week holiday quarter. These results were a function of continued strong sales from the iTunes music store, the introduction of the iPod hi-fi, and very solid demand for other iPod accessory products. The iTunes Music Store sold its 1 billionth song during the March quarter. According to the most recent data from Nielson SoundScan, the iTunes Music Store counts for 87% share of the market for legally purchased and downloaded music in the United States.  

The music store's U.S. content has continued to expand impressively, and now includes over 2.9 million songs, 60,000 podcasts, 9,000 music videos and over 70 television programs from ABC, NBC, CBS, HBO, ESPN and Showtime. We remain extremely enthusiastic about Apple's music business. Despite a large field of competitors, the most recently published data from NPD Tech World shows that Apple's share of the U.S. market for MP3 players has increased in March to 78% from 71% in December.  

The iPod ecosystem continues to thrive, with over 2,000 iPod accessories currently available. There is increasing interest from the automotive industry and we estimate that 40% of new cars sold in the U.S. this year will offer direct iPod integration.  

Looking outside the U.S., the iPod is also the top selling MP3 player by a wide margin in the United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, and Canada, based on the latest data from GFK and BCN. In the rest of Europe and Asia, we do not enjoy the same level of market share, and we view this as an opportunity. We are optimistic about further market penetration potential globally and our ability to grow international market share.  

Considering penetration rates of other consumer electronic products, the MP3 player market has a lot of room for growth. According to Forrester research, U.S. household MP3 player penetration was less than one quarter of that of digital still cameras as of the end of 2005. Turning to Apple's retail segment, revenue from the Apple retail stores totalled $636 million for the quarter, reflecting the transition to Intel and broader indirect iPod distribution. The new-to-Mac percentage increased to 50% of Macs sold in the store's most recent survey.  

We opened six new stores during the quarter, exiting with 141. With an average of 138 stores opened during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was 4.6 million. Retail segment profit was 29 million, compared to 42 million in the year-ago quarter, and the associated manufacturing margin not reflected in the retail segment profit was 128 million compared to the 102 million in the year-ago quarter.  

Traffic through our retail stores continued to be strong during the quarter, growing from 13 million visitors to 18.1 million visitors, year-over-year and translating to over 10,000 visitors per store per week. Customer interest in the new creative studios was high during the quarter and we delivered over 50,000 one-to-one personal training sessions. We will continue to add new stores at a measured pace and expect to open a total of 40 new stores during fiscal '06. In terms of geographic results, including sales from our retail stores, quarterly revenue in the Americas, Europe, and Japan was up 38%, 37%, and 8% respectively.  

Gross margin was 29.8% on a GAAP basis, about 200 basis points higher than our guidance, primarily due to a favorable component pricing environment, higher than expected software sales, and lower than expected costs associated with the Intel transition. Included in GAAP costs of goods sold, was $5 million of stock-based compensation expense. Excluding that expense, non-GAAP gross margin was 29.9%. GAAP operating expenses were 768 million, including $37 million in expense related to stock-based compensation. Non-GAAP OpEx was $731 million, in line with our guidance. OI&E was 76 million and the tax rate was 32%.  

We used some of the cash to make several investments during the quarter. First, we made the remaining $500 million prepayments relating to the agreements for future supply of NAN flash memory components that we announced in the December quarter. Second, we net share settled executive income tax obligations from investing of restricted shares and share units by purchasing and canceling about 5.5 million shares for $353 million. Third, we spent about $120 million to acquire a new data center in the first of several properties to form a second Cupertino campus. Fourth, we made other capital expenditures of $73 million, including $42 million for our retail initiative. Despite these significant investments, cash declined by just $481 million during the quarter to $8.23 billion due to strong earnings, excellent working capital management and stock option exercises. Looking ahead to the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call.  

From the quarter, we are targeting revenue between $4.2 billion and $4.4 billion. We are factoring into our guidance a continued pause in demand in the Mac business related to the transition to Intel. We are also factoring in lower ASPs for Macs and iPods, due to the beginning of the education buying season and for the full quarter impact of the iPod shuffle price reduction and the introduction of the one gigabyte Nano. We expect total quarterly costs of non-cash stock-based compensation to be approximately 50 million.  

We expect GAAP gross margin to be about 28.4%, reflecting approximately $5 million related to stock-based compensation expense. Without that expense, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be about 28.5%. We expect GAAP OpEx to be $775 million, including about $45 million related to stock-based compensation. We expect non-GAAP OpEx to be about $730 million, similar to the March quarter. We expect OI&E to be about $85 million and we expect the tax rate to be 32%. We expect to generate GAAP EPS of about $0.39 to $0.43, which includes an anticipated $0.04 per share related to non-cash share-based compensation expense. We expect non-GAAP EPS to be about $0.43 to $0.47.  

Through the first half of fiscal 2006, Apple has generated over $10 billion in revenue and almost $1 billion in net income. We are very proud to have delivered strong revenue in earnings growth during the transition to Intel. We are extremely happy with how well the transition has been going and we are very enthusiastic about all aspects of our music business. We are confident that our strategy of investing in product innovation is working and we are very excited about the products in our pipeline.  

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.  

NANCY PAXTON: May we have the first question please.  

OPERATOR: Yes. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]. We'll take our first question from Richard Chu of Cowen. Please go ahead.  

RICHARD CHU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Hi. Can you hear me?  

NANCY PAXTON: We can.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. I wonder if you can talk a little bit more about the gross margin variances. You alluded to component pricing. Can you comment on the impact of these purchases of components either benefiting you or hurting you on that point? And then, second, was mix between systems and iPods a factor at all in the gross margin performance? Thank you.  

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE COMPUTER: Richard, hi, it's Tim. It's -- from a components point of view we were able to secure lower costs than we had planned for the quarter on -- particularly on LCDs and Flash memory and this helped drive the gross margins that Peter talked about in the preamble.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Richard, in terms of your -- the second part of your question there were really three factors. As I indicated that helped us do better on the gross margin. The commodity environment, as Tim alluded to. Also, our software sales were better than we expected. Particularly with the new iLife and iWork applications that we introduced at MacWorld and in our guidance, we contemplated price reductions on some of our transitioning PowerPC products which we largely didn't need to incur.  

RICHARD CHU: So mix between iPod and systems was not a variance.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Not a primary one, no.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Yes. Next we'll go to Ben Reitzes of UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Yeah, good afternoon, thanks. Could you just characterize what's going on with iPod demand? Obviously 8.5 is a big drop-off from the 14.1, and obviously there's seasonality, there was some things with the extra week. Maybe you can go back in time as well and talk about what the extra week might have in hindsight now given you in iPods and then how iPods are going out of the quarter and then, to make this question longer, it seems that based on the ASP there was a drop-off in Nanos a little more than expected. So could you just characterize the state of iPod demand?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Overall, Ben, we are very pleased with the quarter. We shipped 8.5 million iPods and it was up over 60% year over year. The December quarter included a 14th week, and that week fell between Christmas and New Year's. And was one of the better shopping weeks of the -- the year. And so that week sell-through was certainly better than the average of the quarter. And as we discussed in January, we also increased the channel inventory by about 550,000 iPods.  

So when you take these factors into account, the sequential iPod sales were down much less than 40%, which according to NPD Tech World has been the typical sequential CE unit decline that you've seen from December to March. So I think the state of the iPods we're very, very happy with it, with the results that we had this quarter. And are excited about what we have in the product pipeline.  

BEN REITZES: What is in your guidance for iPods? And maybe more on guidance is you're basically flattish in revenue but yet you -- you should do better in Macs because you may have more units. So if you could just characterize some of the puts and takes between iPods and Macs that went into that guidance.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Well, as you know, we don't give product level guidance but as I indicated in my prepared remarks, we are factoring into the guidance a continued pause in demand from the transition to Intel. And we're -- included in that are our thinking that some customers may wait for unannounced products, and certain applications becoming universal. And we've also factored lower ASPs into the guidance, both for Mac and iPod as we enter the education buying season, and incur the fourth quarter impact of the Shuffle price decrease and the introduction of the one gigabyte Nano.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. And lastly before I go back in the queue, is retail -- you seem to be below expectations and was there some kind of dynamic there where people were buying on-line and -- because of all the preorders of Macs or some kind of dynamic there that held retail sales down?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, our retail stores were really focusing on the -- on the transition to Intel. And given our Intel announcement that we made at MacWorld with later delivery, particularly with the MacBook Pro. This limited the number of shipping weeks in the quarter. And this, combined with the overall pause we observed impacted the quarter.  

And just to add a little color to that, the retail stores have really been focused on the transition to Intel and immediately upon our announcement that MacWorld, we changed all the product merchandising and the window displays and graphics in the store, really to communicate that this was the future. As Intel-based Macs arrived in the stores, we stopped carrying the comparable PowerPC models and, as you may have seen, our retail sales teams were not discouraged from telling customers to wait for Intel-based Macs if that was the best thing for the customer.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Yes. Next we'll go to Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray. Please go ahead.  

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon, everybody. Just I guess in terms of the iPod market share, can you give us some color what was domestic versus international?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We have some data that we have from GFK and BCM and NPD. As I indicated, the March NPD data just came out this morning and we were thrilled. Our market share increased to 78%, excuse me, from 71% in the December quarter. And we don't have March data yet internationally, but we do have some February data. Our market share increased in each of these markets from December to February. In the UK we were 40%. Japan was 54%. Canada was 45%, and Australia was 58%.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And I guess on that note, what percentage of your iPod sales are domestic versus international?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, that's something that we just don't discuss, we don't want to help our competitors.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Well, I guess it's safe to say that if you look at some of those other geographies you have a much lower market share as you said, and you mentioned in your prepared comments about just global expansion with the iPod, which is -- sounds nice, but maybe you can talk a little bit about how you're actually going to do that.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. I'll make some comments and Tim may want to add on. If you look outside from the international countries that I referenced, such as Italy and Spain and Eastern Europe and even China and Korea, our market share is much less than what I referenced in those five countries. And we are focused on increasing share by increasing our local advertising and points of distribution. And we have seen some success there. For example, in -- since December in Germany, our share has improved by 10 points, up to 21%. And in France we gained four points up to 11%.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. So it's more directly related to advertising versus the pricing of the iPod?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think it's many things. It's our great product lineup, our distribution, the advertising we're doing, the Music Store.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And on another topic here in terms of the Mac business. I was a little bit surprised to see that the pricing of the Mac mini increased and, granted, you built in a lot more functionality but I would have thought that maybe you guys would have taken advantage of some of those pricing advantages with Intel platform and tried to pass it along to pick up market share, but it seemed like you're going in a little bit different direction. Is it safe to say you're going to kind of continue in that -- the same direction you're going in terms of the pricing, or is every day a new day in terms of potentially where you could go with your pricing?  

TIM COOK: Gene, I don't want to comment on our future pricing plans but I would make the point that we viewed the Mac mini as an incredible value. With Mac mini, we began to ship front row for the first time on the Mac mini. It also is the lowest price point to get into the iLife suite. And so overall we think it's a great value for customers.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. But is it safe to say that your general thinking about pricing exists in the future or do you think it potentially could change, any thoughts on that front?  

TIM COOK: I'm not going to project our future pricing.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. One more just housekeeping item here. When -- there's some controversy when the actual back-to-school buying season starts. Is it in May through the end of September? Can you just give us some color on that?  

TIM COOK: We generally begin to see some uplift in late June but it's principally in July through September.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. So let's just -- I know you guys aren't going to announce timing of products but for example, the iBook, when would that have to be out again? This is not about the exact timing but when would that have to be out to basically really hit the sweet spot of the back to school?  

TIM COOK: We're not going to comment on unannounced products.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. But any just comments in terms of what the best window for getting the iBook out would be?  

TIM COOK: Again, I'm not going to comment on unannounced products.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. We'll take our next question from Richard Gardner of Citigroup.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Okay. Thank you. Tim, one for you. I was hoping maybe you could comment on the supply/demand balance for the new Intel-based products that you've launched so far this year exiting the quarter.  

And then I guess for Peter, I know we've been talking about seasonality in your guidance for the June quarter throughout the call. But can you just give us a sense of what you consider to be normal seasonality for both the Mac and the Music businesses going into June, excluding some of the product transition and other -- other I guess unusual things that you might have going on? Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Rich. How about if I start and then Tim can answer your first question.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: For the iPod, past seasonal trends are really not applicable this year as prior year's supply constraints particularly with the iPod mini. So we're not sure that we have good historical datapoints to reference. For the Mac, past seasonal trends other than the beginning of the education buying season are also likely to not be as appropriate given our transition to Intel.  

TIM COOK: Rich, on the three different products that we announced during the quarter that have Intel processors, the iMac was in reasonable supply the entire quarter. The MacBook Pro, the shipments of the MacBook Pro accelerated in March, February shipments were relatively low. In March the last two weeks of the quarter were particularly strong.  

And with those strong shipments, which included a significant amount of units that were in transit at the end of the quarter, we -- we reduced our backlog to normal levels. I would stress again the number of weeks that it was shipping obviously were limited for the quarter. On the Mac mini, we announced that at the end of February and were able to ship that for four weeks of the quarter.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And then if I could just follow up with one more question. Peter, could you just give us a sense of what the geographic mix is going to be of the 40 new retail stores that you're opening this year?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Primarily in the U.S.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Any sense of how many internationals are included in that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think a little more than 30 will be in the United States.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. All right. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Yes. We'll take our next question from Bill Fearnley of FTN Midwest Securities.  

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST SECURITIES: Yes, thanks, guys. I'd like to take another crack at the iBook question. With the current product with the G4 processor, do you see having that as your offering going to the K-12 education institution, the selling season or the preselling season for delivery in July through September? Do you think that's going to hurt you in the education business, or do you think you'll be able to sell some of the G4 processors into the education institutions? And then I have a follow-up.  

TIM COOK: Bill, again I'm not going to comment on our product plans but I would tell you that we're very proud of the iBook G4 and many customers are continuing to buy it and it's a great product.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Do you think you'd have to take any pricing actions on it, though, to make it more attractive to institutions for later delivery?  

TIM COOK: Again I'm not going to comment on pricing or unannounced products.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. Thanks. And also wanted to ask about iPod gross margins. You commented that they were above 20% last call. Could you update on what iPod gross margins were here for the second quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes. They were above 20% in the March quarter.  

BILL FEARNLEY: And any comments on mix Nano versus video iPod or anything that you care to comment on for additional color in the iPod space?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Nothing specifically. We were pleased with sales of all of our iPods.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]. Our next question will come from Chris Whitmore of Deutsche Bank.  

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I was hoping to get some color on the split between iBooks and MacBook Pros during the quarter in terms of units sold. And in addition in terms of the inventory levels in the channel, is there any significant difference between desktop inventories in the channel and notebook inventories in the channel?  

TIM COOK: Chris, I won't break out the desktop versus portable channel inventory but I will make some comments about channel inventory on the Mac overall. We ended the quarter, as Peter spoke about in the preamble, within the targeted range of four to five weeks. If you recall, we began the quarter with less than four weeks in preparation for the MacWorld announcement. We were able to return to that targeted range by the end of the quarter by increasing the amount of inventory by about five days. And keep in mind that that inventory is in support of indirect sales only.  

CHRIS WHITMORE: And this split between --  

TIM COOK: We don't split it out.  

CHRIS WHITMORE: Separate topic regarding flash pricing, flash pricing's coming off fairly sharply here, clearly helps your gross margins in the quarter. What are your thoughts about passing some of those price declines on to customers and accelerating unit growth? Any color on that would be helpful.  

TIM COOK: We were able to benefit from flash pricing in the quarter. We did take, if you recall, the Shuffle price down, the entry point, to $69. We also cut the price of the one gig Shuffle to $99, and we announced a new entry point for the Nano at $149. We think all of those are an incredible value.  

CHRIS WHITMORE: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Chris. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Rebecca Runkle of Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great. Thanks. Just a couple of quick questions. First, Peter, on iTunes in particular, I believe you've seen seasonality in the first quarter as school let's out in the past, could you just refresh my own memory in the past in terms of what you've seen in the past.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry, for iTunes?  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Yes. And just music downloads.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me make some comments. I think more between December and March and we'll -- we'll see what happens in June and report to you. We were thrilled with our other music sales in the quarter, which were up 125% year over year. And as you know, primarily consists of the iTunes Music Store sales and our iPod and music accessories.  

Music sales were actually higher in the March quarter than they were in the December quarter, really showing the momentum that we have in the Music Store around the world. In terms of what you might expect for June, again, we don't give specific product guidance, but we think we are continuing to gain momentum, and sales will vary also quarter by quarter. In part, due to new releases.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And then just shifting gears. Can you just talk about how -- and what type of CPU trends you saw as the new Intel CPUs became more available and whether or not you saw people come back into the stores as the supply improved?  

TIM COOK: Rebecca, it's Tim. Shipments of the Intel-based Mac accelerated across the quarter, and the majority of the shipments that we did in the month of March were Intel-based, and I think just to pause, there an incredible accomplishment I think to announce a transition in January and have that occur just 60 days thereafter. The customer response that we've gotten is enormous. The analyst response is enormous. And as we saw it, if you look at the adoption rate of percentage of Intel-based units sold to total units, the consumer segment was the highest adoption. And so the stores clearly saw that in the month of March.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And then on Boot Camp in particular, any color that you can provide in terms of impact that you saw post that announcement?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You know, the response has been written about a lot. We've had -- we did this because we were getting a lot of customer requests for this, as many Windows users were considering switching to the Mac. We think that it makes the Mac even more appealing to them, and -- but it is beta and so we put that out there to get feedback, and we've really just begun that. It's only been out two weeks.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: But you would say that just in terms of what you saw from consumers and what you saw flowing to the store, what have you, that it was consistent with what we've seen written about from third parties?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're seeing a high level of interest in it.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Great. Thank you both very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Rebecca. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Charles Wolf of Needham & Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Yes. I want to stay with Boot Camp. Will Apple add Windows virtualization to the final release in Leopard, or will you leave virtualization to third parties such as Parallel?  

TIM COOK: Charlie, we just put it out. It's the beta. We will incorporate it in Leopard as we talked about but the purpose of a beta is to get feedback and I wouldn't want to speculate about what we would or would not do.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Now, has the beta downloads in the past two weeks been substantial?  

TIM COOK: There is a high level of interest but, again, it's a beta and we're not releasing the download number.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thank you very much.  

TIM COOK: Yep.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman of Banc of America. Mr. Bachman, your line is open, please go ahead.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Yes, hi, guys. Thanks very much. Peter, Tim, I wanted to go back for a second to the desktop number if I could. The desktop was out for a good part of the quarter, and as you mentioned in the -- in the December quarter, there was a little bit of a pause there in anticipation of the new Intel system. Why do you think the number was still a bit slow? And was it -- are you alluding to the software availability as one of the gating factors there? And I have a follow-up, please.  

TIM COOK: Keith, when you look at desk tops, keep in mind that iMac, Mac mini eMac and Power Mac and so we -- as you know, we don't release the specific units on each one of those, but I would share with you that the Intel-based iMac did very well in the quarter. The Mac mini only shipped for four weeks of the quarter or the Mac mini with the Intel version of the Mac mini as we began shipping in March and the compare there is to the launch quarter of a year ago. So it's a very difficult compare. Also, as Peter alluded to, in the preamble, we believe that certain Pro customers are delaying their purchase, waiting on certain apps and the Power Mac would clearly be the unit that would be most affected by the Pro customer delay.  

KEITH BACHMAN: But Tim would it also be the high end of the -- of the i-Mac and if Adobe is publicly indicated that they're not going to have their versions ready natively until '07, how should we be thinking about that impacting? In other words, when do you think the pause ends?  

TIM COOK: Well, Adobe has said that their application will be universal with the next release. Casual users of Photoshop may be satisfied with using PhotoShop with Rosetta. A heavy user of PhotoShop would likely not be satisfied with the performance of Photoshop running under Rosetta, and frankly it's very hard to assess the specific impact of it, but we do believe that this is affecting Mac sales and we're working very closely with Adobe to get the creative suite out as soon as possible.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Let me try one last one and then I'll cede the floor. You've indicated you think you might have some additional pause in June and clearly with the Mac or the iBook pending that makes sense, but would that in your mind be the end of any kind of pause at the June quarter?  

TIM COOK: I don't want to predict the -- beyond the current quarter and giving guidance for the current quarter.  

We are very focused on the -- what we believe are the key factors in getting through the transition and those are: One getting all of our hardware moved and we are on target to do that by the end of the year as we -- as Steve reported earlier at MacWorld. Number two, to get our apps universal and we are pleased to report that the predominant apps in video and audio and our consumer apps are forwarded as of the end of March. Number three is working with our developers. And as Peter said earlier, we've had 1500 that are already universal. And 50% of the top 500 will be by the end of April. And so we feel that this progress in less than 90 days, this enormous progress, that I'm not going to predict when we will get through all of that, other than to say that we are on target on the hardware schedule that we had announced earlier.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thanks very much for taking my question.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Keith. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Richard Farmer, of Merrill Lynch.  

RICHARD FARMER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Three questions, please. Peter, I will take another crack at the iPod hardware gross margin. You've said that it was over 20%. There are a lot of potential numbers above 20. Can you provide any more color there? Was it for instance closer to 25 than 20?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Richard, I think the only color that I will go into is that it was sequentially better in the March quarter from December and above 20%. As we've indicated before, our competitors would just love to know what our specific gross margins are and shipments by product and by geography and we just don't want to help them.  

RICHARD FARMER: Okay. Two other brief ones, please. If you look at the observed price declines in the flash contract market, how big of a lag is there typically between those declines and then Apple's ability to take advantage of that pricing in margin in the iPod product?  

TIM COOK: We don't really talk about the specifics of our commercial deals, but I would tell you that the advantage that we got on flash pricing during the last quarter was one of the keys behind our gross margin meeting the guidance.  

RICHARD FARMER: Okay. And then finally a follow-up on Boot Camp. It seems pretty intuitive that there's going to be a portion of consumers that will switch to Mac as a result of the Boot Camp. Corporate in the entrenched Windows environment seems a little bit different. Do you think that Boot Camp is, in any way, going to give you an entree into the traditional corporate Windows environment, particularly if you're not supporting Windows? And I guess the related question is do you anticipate ever supporting Windows directly?  

TIM COOK: We have no desire and no plan to sell or support Windows. But we do think that Boot Camp makes the Mac even more appealing to Windows users considering making the switch. And that's the reason we put it out. And it is a beta, and so we have put it out to get feedback and we are just two weeks into that.  

RICHARD FARMER: Would you agree that that's primarily a consumer-oriented addressable market then, that you're really not targeting given no desire to support Windows directly, you're really not targeting any large corporate Windows environment?  

TIM COOK: One of the great advantages of the beta is gathering the customers' feedback and that's where we are in this process.  

RICHARD FARMER: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Kevin Hunt of Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Hi. Thanks. I had a couple things. On a technical detail, can you give us the breakout of the 37 million stock option between R&D and SG&A?  

And also I had some questions on the margins. This was your highest gross margin in like five years and you've been two quarters in a row over 13% operating margin, which I don't think you were in that high in multiple decades. Can you maybe update us on what the long-term model is that you think you can achieve on a gross margin and operating margin?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. It -- I did not have the breakout with me for the stock comp expense between R&D and SG&A. We did include that last quarter in our press release financials. So you can -- you can go and look at last quarter and get some indication of what it was then. In terms of our margin, I have provided you very detailed guidance for the June quarter, and we're not going to provide an updated business model or future projections and pleased with the -- the guidance that we've given you this quarter, which includes double-digit operating margin.  

KEVIN HUNT: I think you -- what I think a while ago, you did kind of give some margin which I thought was only around 10% or so. So is that what you're saying for the long-term sustainable is, or are you saying I think it comes out to something like 11.5 or something what you're saying for the next quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: What -- we can clearly see what we've reported, and in terms of our guidance on a GAAP basis, including the stock comp expense, we are at 10% plus, and without the stock for the guidance that we provided for the June quarter, is over 11%.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. One last question. Did you have any significant discounting of the older G4 models in the quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. And that was one of the three factors that allowed us to do better on gross margin than what we had guided to. We had planned for some price reductions and many of the transitioning PowerPC models and used very little of it.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Bill Shope of JP Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thank you. Can you give us an outlook -- or your outlook for the component prices in the June quarter and are any components currently constrained?  

TIM COOK: There's no significant constraint in the market that we're experiencing. Factored into the guidance that Peter gave you is a favorable pricing environment for both LCD and NAN Flash where supply continues to exceed the demand. We expect optical drives and hard drives to track to historical trends. And DRAM pricing we expect to trade in a relatively narrow range.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. And one more question on a -- there's been a lot of press on the DRAM law proposals in France. Can you give us a read on what you view the potential risks are to the Apple business model longer term and whether you think there is a risk that this could spread to other countries?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we believe that the French implementation of the EU copyright directive will result in state-sponsored piracy and if this happens, we believe legal music sales will plummet just when legitimate alternatives to piracy are winning customers over, and we don't think that the proposed French legislation would be good for anyone.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. And then final question. Can you give us an update on the profitability of the Music Store.  

TIM COOK: The Music Store operated above break even in the March quarter.  

BILL SHOPE: Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Andy Neff of Bear Stearns.  

BILL HAND, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Thank you. It's Bill Hand for Andy. Just a couple questions. On the iPod front, I realize you can't talk about new products. But just any thoughts on potential new directions and future drivers for iPod in the second half, other than perhaps maybe market-share gains internationally?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, the question I'm really not able to answer other than to tell you that we are very excited about what we have in the product pipeline. Not for iPod but for Mac and our whole product pipeline.  

BILL HAND: Okay. Just another question regarding the new Mactel product. Are there any particular issues that are holding back the launch of the rest of the Mactel line that you can talk about?  

TIM COOK: We're on target. There's nothing holding it back. We are on target to complete by the end of the year as we have now.  

BILL HAND: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Joel Wagonfeld of First Albany.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY: Thank you. Wanted going into a bit more detail on your expectations for gross margin next quarter you mentioned flash price advantage was a key advantage in your gross margin upside last quarter. What's the relative benefit that you're anticipating for your gross margin guidance for next quarter and what are other key levers that might help or hurt the June quarter that could surprise one way or the other.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Joel, I'll start and generally talk about the factors that will affect gross margin and Tim may want to add some further color. I guided gross margin down about 140 basis points despite the favorable commodity environment due to several factors: First, the June quarter begins the education buying season. Particularly for K to 12 which buys lower ASP and margin Macs. And secondly, we will see the full quarter impact of the iPod Shuffle price reduction that we took in the introduction of the one gigabyte Nano.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: In terms of the relative benefit of your Flash advantage, is it about the same as it was last quarter?  

TIM COOK: We don't want to get into specifics of that other than to say that we continue to view both LCD and NAN Flash in a very favorable environment for the current quarter.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll ake it from Shaw Wu of American Technology.  

SHAW WU, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY: Thanks. Just any update on use of cash? I mean your cash position continues to build -- well not this specific quarter but any comment there -- any comments on Greenberg Capital? Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shaw, regarding our use of cash, we are continuing to be conservative with the cash despite some of the investments we made this quarter. Wanting to retain it for flexibility to invest in the business. We do discuss with the board from time to time share buyback, but don't have a change in philosophy to discuss with you today. As regards Rayburn, we are opening an office in Nevada as part of our treasury operations. In addition to our offices in Cupertino and Singapore.  

SHAW WU: That's it? Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shaw. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Steve Lidberg of Pacific Crest Securities.  

STEVE LIDBERG, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Good afternoon. First I was hoping that you could provide kind of a sense as to the Mac units and what percentage of them were Intel-based systems and then secondly, as you look at the iPod business I guess, where are the points of presence -- or with is the number for points presence today? And how is that situated between the U.S. market and the international markets? Thanks.  

TIM COOK: Hi, Steve, it's Tim. The -- we're not releasing the exact percentage of Intel versus PowerPC for the quarter of the Mac area. But I can tell you that the shipments of the Intel units did accelerate across the quarter and the majority of shipments that we made in the month of March were Intel-based. In regards to the iPod points of presence, we now have over 35,000 store fronts across the world.  

We believe that we are at or near full distribution in the U.S., and some countries in Europe. But we believe there's still opportunity in other countries in Europe, in Japan and Asia and Latin America and Canada. And so we're continuing to find and sign very good channel partners.  

STEVE LIDBERG: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll take the next question from Harry Blount of Lehman Brothers.  

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. A couple questions. First of all on the PC unit side of the equation, it looks like you had good growth year over year in Europe and was wondering if that may be related to additional distribution locations on the PC?  

TIM COOK: The difference in the Europe's overall year-over-year growth versus the Company's was principally an increase in channel inventory related to MacBook Pro units being in transit at the end of the quarter that I had spoken about earlier. And so the growth rate looks very similar to the rest of the world.  

HARRY BLOUNT: And then related to that, how many Mac locations do you currently have?  

TIM COOK: We currently have around 7,000 around the world.  

HARRY BLOUNT: And then just in terms of trends between direct and indirect. Can you give some sense of how iPods and PCs have trended over the last several quarters?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We don't break iPod and Mac direct, indirect out but our direct sales in the March quarter were 44% and in that we include direct sales to education and enterprise customers on-line, retail and our Music Store.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay. And then the last question also relates to PC distribution. I understand what you guys were saying upfront in terms of the Intel stall, but if I look at the retail units, PC retail units sold even on a year-over-year basis, given that you guys have maybe three or four dozen more stores open, it would actually suggest that the PC units per store are down fairly meaningfully on a year-over-year basis. Is -- it's -- I guess it seems counterintuitive that the stores would be the place that people would be most likely to convert given the support that they have and the selection of inventory. So a little bit more thoughts on that would be helpful.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. And as I commented earlier, our retail stores are really focusing on the Intel transition. And we made announcements at MacWorld and shipped -- and delivered product later, particularly with the MacBook Pro. And this impacted our stores. And again, the stores were really focused from a Mac perspective on the transition to Intel.  

We very quickly changed the merchandising and the window displays and the graphics to focus on the Intel transition right after MacWorld in advance of product coming to the stores, as our first Intel-based Macs arrived in the stores, we generally stopped carrying the PowerPC based models. And as you may have seen, as I indicated, our sales teams really didn't discourage people from waiting for Intel-based models to arrive and really let the customer purchase what they wanted to and that impacted us in the quarter. We remained very, very confident in our retail stores, they are delivering strong growth to the Company and our new-to-Mac percent in the quarter actually rose to about 50%.  

HARRY BLOUNT: One last question. I meant to come back to the margin side real quickly. You guys had started several quarters ago the royalty licensing program and obviously that's a contribution to margins as well. You didn't mention that. And so I'm wondering as it relates to iPod margins overall, was that a contributing factor?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I am sorry, Harry, I can't comment on that. Those agreements have -- are confidential.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll take the next question from Shannon Cross of Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Hi, good afternoon. Just a question on your new facility. Any idea what you're going to spend on CapEx for that? I think you said $120 million was for the data center which I think Steve mentioned you'd put together like nine parcels or something? And then also the 3000, 3500 employees, are those incremental to your head count do you think or is that just consolidating Cupertino?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me go back through that. In the quarter we spent about 120 million to acquire a new data center to support our future growth. And the first of several properties for a second campus in Cupertino. As a result of the growth that we've had, we have increased the number of leased buildings in the greater Cupertino area. And this has become really much less efficient and very inconvenient for us.  

So we've gone out and are in the process of acquiring about 50 acres that are just about 10 minutes away from our current campus. And we expect to break ground in a few years and hopefully complete a second campus in around four years and we very much look forward to getting our teams closer together. So the idea would really be to consolidate the teams that we have into two campuses. We have about 30 buildings scattered across Cupertino that the people are in.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. How many employees work at the one campus right now?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We have many thousand employees here in Cupertino but aren't disclosing how many are on the campus.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And then moving on. Profitability of iTunes, are you still running for break even? What are your thought processes as you obviously have expanded the content significantly?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As I commented before, the store operated above break even in the quarter and we think selling songs and video is really helping us to sell iPods.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And then one final question. Can you just clarify the retail profit -- yes, just the profit from your retail stores this quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. The segment profit was 29 million and the manufacturing margin was not included in the segment profit was 128 million.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. We have time for one more question.  

OPERATOR: Our last question will come from David Bailey. Please go ahead, sir.  

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, thank you. Just a quick clarification. Did you say that you increased iPod channel inventory by 550,000 units in the December quarter and can you tell us how many units you -- if any that you added in the March quarter?  

TIM COOK: David, we did increase channel inventory in the December quarter by 550. As we entered the quarter, we were within the targeted range of four to six weeks on a look-forward basis and as we exited the quarter, we were within that range. And also the number of weeks is approximately the same in both cases.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thank you, David. And thanks, everyone, for joining us.  

Recording of today's call will be available for retail for seven days beginning at 5 p.m. Pacific time today, and the number for that replay is 719-457-0820. Confirmation code is 4955780. A replay of the audio webcast for this call will also be available beginning at approximately 5 o'clock Pacific time today at  www.apple.com/investor . And members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896, and financial analysts can contact Joan Hoffer or me with additional questions, Joan's at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our presentation. We do appreciate your participation. At this time you may disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060503e24j001s1
  


 HD
 Q1  2006 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,563 words
   PD
18 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Thank you for standing by. We're about to begin. Good day and welcome to this Apple Computer first quarter financial results conference call. Today's call is being recorded.  

At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Nancy Paxton, Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.  

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon. Thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll joined by Apple COO, Tim Cook, and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Whistler for the Q&A session with the analysts.  

Please note some that of the information you'll hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, earnings per share, Apple's retail initiatives, iPod shipments, future products including Intel-based Macs, components prepayments, and non-cash stock-based compensation expense.  

Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information please refer to the risk factors contained in the Company's Form 10-K for 2005. Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed will be posted on Apple's website,  www.apple.com/investor .  

I'd like to remind that you the second quarter of Apple's fiscal 2006 will end on April 1st, and will span 13 weeks, rather than the 14 weeks spanned by the first fiscal quarter. In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public, by broadcasting the call live over the Internet.  

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, SVP, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are extremely proud to report a tremendous first quarter for Apple.  

Revenue of 5.75 billion, increased over 2 billion from last quarter's record revenue, and was up 65% year-over-year. This quarterly results also exceeded Apple's revenue for all of fiscal 2002. The quarter's revenue was fueled by record shattering iPod sales, solid Mac sales, and a 14th week of business during the quarter.  

Quarterly net income nearly doubled on a year-over-year basis, and also widely eclipsed the previous record established in the September quarter. Based on unusually strong operating margin of 13%, net income was $565 million, or $0.65 per diluted share on a GAAP basis. Excluding the impact of non-cash stock based compensation, operating margin was 13.8%, net income was $595 million, and diluted earnings per share were $0.68.  

I'll now provide highlights of our two businesses, Mac and Music. Our Mac business generated 41% of total revenue, and was up 12% from the year-ago quarter. Mac shipments increased 20% year-over-year to 1.254 million, the highest quarterly total in six years. We continue to experience strong portable system sales. We shipped a combined total of 587,000 iBooks and PowerBooks representing 39% year-over-year growth. We shipped 667,000 desktop systems, representing 7% year-over-year growth.  

Mac unit sales exceeded our internal expectations, despite what we believed was the positive sales associated with Intel transition. Reflecting on the September and December quarters, we were pleased with the lower than expected impact of the Intel transition on sales, and with the momentum of our Mac business. Our ending channel inventory remained below our target of 4 to 5 weeks, as planned, due to our Intel-based Macintosh announcement at MacWorld.  

Our music business generated 59% of total Apple revenue in the quarter, and was up 145% compared to the year-ago quarter. We sold over 14 million iPods during the quarter, more than 3 times the number we sold in the year ago quarter, and more than double the previous record number of iPods we sold in the September quarter. We're particularly proud of our execution, given that we replaced two of our three iPod lines including the highest volume iPod mini line, as we entered the holiday season.  

Customer reaction to both the iPod Nano, and the fifth generation iPod was stunning. iPod channel inventories were lower than we would have liked during the quarter. At the end of the quarter, including units in transit, our channel inventory levels were within our four to six week target range, based on our current view of demand for the seasonally lower March quarter.  

It was a landmark quarter for the iTunes music store, with the addition of television, music video, and short film content, to the stores vast and growing library of music and audio books. The iTunes music store continues to be the world's leading on-line music service, and currently operates in 21 countries, that represent over 90% of the global music market. We have sold over 850 million songs, and 8 million videos to date, and according to Nielson sound scan, Apple accounted for 83% of the share of the U.S. market for legally purchased, and downloaded music during the month of December.  

The Apple retail stores reached a significant new milestone in the December quarter by generating $1.072 billion in revenue, compared to $561 million in the year ago quarter. We opened 11 new stores during the quarter, exiting with 135. With an average of 129 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was $8.3 million, up 41% from the year-ago quarter. Retail segment profits rose sharply to $90 million, from $45 million in the year-ago quarter. And associated manufacturing margin, not reflected in retail segment profit was $199 million, up from $99 million in the year-ago quarter.  

We're particularly proud of the momentum we have realized in our stores. In fiscal 2004 after three years of operation, we generated $1.185 billion in annual revenue through the stores. In fiscal 2005, we nearly doubled that number to $2.35 billion. Now in a single quarter, we have surpassed $1 billion in revenue.  

We will continue to add new stores at a measured pace, and expect to open a total of 40 new stores during fiscal '06. In terms of geographic results, including sales from our retail stores, quarterly revenue in Japan, the Americas, and Europe was up year-over-year by 92%, 70%, and 51% respectively. Gross margin was 27.2% on a GAAP basis, and included $5 million in expense related to noncash stock-based compensation.  

Without this expense, non-GAAP gross margin would have been 27.3%. GAAP operating expenses were $814 million, including $39 million in expense related to stock-based compensation. Non-GAAP OpEx was $775 million, $55 million higher than our guidance, primarily due to variable expenses associated with a higher revenue level, a greater than expected mix of direct sales, and investments we made in our business.  

OI&E was $81 million, and the tax rate was 32%. Cash grew by $446 million during the quarter, to $8.707 billion. We made pre-payments of $750 million, related to previously announced agreements, for future supply of NAND Flash memory components.  

Without these prepayments, cash would have increased by about $1.2 billion. The cash generation was primarily a function of strong earnings, excellent working capital management, and employee stock option exercises. Cash flow from operations during the quarter was about $283 million, which includes the impact of a $750 million prepayment.  

Capital expenditures in the quarter were $82 million, including $40 million for our retail initiative. Looking ahead to the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to, at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, which will span the typical 13, rather than 14 weeks, we are targeting the second best quarter in the Company's history, second only to last quarter, with revenue of about $4.3 billion. This target represents 33% year-over-year growth, and an increase of over $1 billion year-over-year.  

We are factoring into our guidance, a seasonal decline in iPods, and the beginning of our transition to Intel-based Macs. We expect a total quarterly cost of non-cash stock-based compensation to be approximately $49 million. We expect GAAP gross margin to be about 27.8%, reflecting approximately $5 million, related to stock-based compensation expense.  

Without that expense, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be about 27.9%. We expect GAAP OpEx to be about $774 million, including about $44 million, related to stock-based compensation, we expect non-GAAP OpEx to be about $730 million. We expect OI&Es to be about $72 million, and we expect the tax rate to be 32%. We expect to generate GAAP EPS of about $0.38, which includes an anticipated $0.04 per share related to noncash share-based compensation expense. We expect non-GAAP EPS to be about $0.42.  

During the March quarter, we expect to pay the remaining $500 million of the $1.25 billion NAND Flash prepayment. We've just completed the best quarter in Apple's history! And fiscal '06 is off a great start. Our new Intel-based Macs announced at MacWorld, have been very well received. We remain extremely enthusiastic about our innovative product pipeline, and we are confident in our strategy.  

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

We'll take as many questions as time permits, and in the order that you signal. We'll pause for just a moment. Our first question comes from Ben Reitzes of UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon, thanks a lot. Couple of things, Peter are you able to quantify the impact of the extra week? I believe last year you did not have the week after Christmas. This year you did. And so was this year's extra week extra big, or is it really hard to say, and then I just wanted to ask more about your guidance.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me answer your first question. Yes, the 14th week this year did span between Christmas Day and New Year's Day, and that is traditionally, and it was this year, a very strong shopping week. And our earnings, expenses, and revenue were all higher as a result.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. I mean, is it possible to say like it added 1 or 2 million iPods, or is it just too hard to say?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, I would characterize it as a big week.  

BEN REITZES: All right. Then with regard to your outlook, could you just tell us a little more about what you're expecting with the Intel transition? You're coming off a quarter where you guided 4.7, you come in at 5.75, now you're at 4.3. I mean, shouldn't we assume, why are you being so conservative? A little more detail on this exact Intel transition issue would be helpful, maybe even if you could go back through the weeks of inventory, and what you might expect further drain, or anything else?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll let Tim address our channel inventory, but let me just speak to you in a little broader terms about our guidance. We factored a number of considerations into developing our guidance. First, and then this really was your first question, Q1 spans 14 weeks, and Q2 will span the normal 13 weeks, and again, the 14th week that we had this quarter was the week between Christmas and New Year's, which is a very strong shopping week.  

Second, for our Mac business, we have factored in the very strong response that we've received for the new Intel-based Macs that we announced at MacWorld. The limited number of shipping weeks that we will have on MacBook Pro, and the pause that we saw in customer demand for Q1.  

For the iPods, we have factored in the extraordinary demand in Q1, which was fueled by iPod being one of top holiday gifts of the season. Some channel fill that we had, and a seasonal drop in demand, as we go from the holiday quarter to the March quarter.  

BEN REITZES: Did you say channel inventory for iPods were within the range, or even at the low end?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: They were within the range, but maybe I'll let Tim make some comments on both Mac and the iPod Inventory.  

TIM COOK, COO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: On iPod channel inventory, as has been widely reported in numerous places, our channel inventory was lower than we would have liked for most of the quarter.  

Shipments did improve on iPod across the quarter, and in particular the second half of December, the shipments were very strong. With the strong shipments, total channel inventory, which included a significant amount of inventory, that was in-transit at the end of the quarter, increased by approximately 550,000 units, as compared to the channel inventory at the beginning of the quarter. Despite that, the ending channel inventory was still below the targeted range of 4 to 6 weeks, based on December sales. However, we believe that the channel inventory is within our targeted range of 4 to 6 weeks, based on our current view of demand for the seasonally lower March quarter.  

In terms of the Mac channel inventory, we began the quarter below the targeted range of 4 to 5 weeks. And as we had planned, we ended the quarter below the targeted range in preparation for the MacWorld announcements that we made last week.  

BEN REITZES: I'm going to cede the floor, one more. I see a situation where you still may have some lower than expected channel inventory, but are you seeing anything out there that is giving you any pause in the economy, or in the consumer markets, other than some of these Apple-related events that you're talking about?  

TIM COOK: What we are seeing is, we had an extraordinary response last week to our announcements at MacWorld, we were thrilled with the reaction that we've gotten, including the bookings on the new iMac and the Power Book, or MacBook Pro.  

Last quarter, we did see a pause, as some customers begin to speculate about the upcoming announcements at MacWorld. However, the Mac beat our internal expectations, as Peter had said. We obviously factored some level of pause into our guidance, and we were able to beat that number, and were very happy with it, and the overall momentum of the Mac business.  

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Ben. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Rob Semple from Credit Suisse is our next question.  

ROB SEMPLE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Kind of looking at the OpEx guidance, it is now basically in-line with your sales guidance. I know you don't give a target model anymore, but historically you used try to keep that tracking at about 50% of the growth of sales. How should we be thinking about that? Do you need to be spending this much, if top-line growth is going to be slowing like this?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As I said, we are very confident in our business, and our strategy and we are continuing to invest for long-term growth, both in revenue and in earnings. I've provided very strong guidance for the March quarter, with revenue growing at 33% and double-digit operating margin.  

ROB SEMPLE: One follow-up on the Mac question. Obviously if you've had a strong response for the new products, does this mean you're very scared about iBook and PowerBook sales really deteriorating, until those new products are launched as well?  

TIM COOK: We did see a pause last quarter, and as Peter has said, we factored what we saw last quarter into this quarter's guidance. We're thrilled with the response that we got last week, and as we said, we've started shipments of the iMac already, and given that we've got an entire quarter to ship it, we believe that we can, we're hopeful we can meet the demand on the iMac. But also as we announced last week, the MacBook Pro will begin shipping in February, and therefore, it has a limited number of weeks to ship during the quarter, and given that and the very strong response that we saw, we may not be able to meet the demand on the MacBook Pro.  

ROB SEMPLE: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Rebecca Runkle of Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good afternoon. Obviously a phenomenal quarter! Just want to dig down a little bit more on the CPU side of the equation, you've alluded several times to the fact that you saw a pause. Since that was the one area where some people could say they were disappointed on the December results, can you just provide a little bit more specificity, in terms of what you saw that gives you confidence that this is purely a pause in front of the product cycle, as opposed to any disconnect on the halo thesis, that many people have?  

TIM COOK: Let me make some comments here. First of all, the Mac business, we're at 20% year-over-year, and it did beat our internal expectation, which had factored in a level of pause. We did see a pause. We received reports from a number of customers from different markets, that they were postponing purchases pending MacWorld's announcements.  

However, our results last week that we saw, and the reaction last week is extraordinary, and that gives us tremendous optimism about the customer reaction on the Intel-based Macintoshes. It's very difficult to predict how customers will react this quarter. And so we have obviously factored in, that kind of thinking into our guidance.  

A year ago, we had a situation, as you recall, the comparison quarter, where we had a significant shortage of G5 chips in the September quarter, and then we began to fill the channel, and served the pent-up demand as we entered the December quarter. So the comparison frankly, is also a difficult comparison, and that has to be taken into consideration, as well in looking at the year-over-year results.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: I know you guys don't specifically like to talk about specific products anymore, but would you at least confirm that more of the slowdown happened on the professional side of the equation, as opposed to the consumer side of the equation? Or is that not a trend that you saw?  

TIM COOK: We had some level of reports from customers in different markets. I wouldn't want to pin it on one market above the other.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Okay. Great. Thank so you much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Rebecca. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Next question, Bill Shope of JP Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: First of all, on your website you're still offering the iMac G5 and obviously the PowerMac G4, at the same price as the new Intel-based Macs, as you highlighted at MacWorld. Can you give us an idea of how much inventory you still need to work through for the legacy products, and also help us understand how you'll work through that inventory without discounting?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we don't, Bill, talk about future products, or future pricing, but we've certainly factored our thinking into our guidance, and we will continue to ship the iMac G5 and the Power Book 15" while supplies last.  

BILL SHOPE: Just a clarification, on the in-transit inventory that you include in your channel inventory number, that's not recognized as revenue yet, right? You don't recognize that until that actual arrives at the retailer, or is that incorrect?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, we recognize shipments of our products in most cases when they are shipped from our factories.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay, one final question. Can you give us a read on margins for the iPod business for the quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. As you know I don't want to be, for competitive reasons, specific, nor do we want to talk about specific iPod sales, but I will tell that you that the iPod gross margins in the December quarter were above 20%.  

BILL SHOPE: Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Bill. Could we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Charles Wolf, Needham & Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO.: Yes, I have a few questions. What was the split on Apple store Mac sales between Windows and Mac users?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Charlie, I'm sorry, I don't have that.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Then what was the split between iPod sales, domestic versus international?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Charlie, as I indicated in Bill's question, we don't want to talk about iPod sales by model or geography. I can tell you that with 14 million sold last quarter, we were thrilled with that result, and there where points in the quarter where we were too low in many of our channels.  

CHARLES WOLF: Let me ask a final question then. At the MacWorld keynote last week, Steve indicated that music downloads were running at 3 million per week, I believe. I assume that that level was reached through a lot of redemptions of gift certificates, is that a reasonable assumption?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, in the December quarter we sold a lot of iTunes music gift cards and certificates over at the store, but we're also having people purchase directly as well. We couldn't have been happier with the sales of iTunes in the December quarter.  

TIM COOK: Charlie, that's 3 million per day, not 3 million per week, for clarity.  

CHARLES WOLF: Oh, yes, right. 3 million per day is right.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Charlie. Could we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross of Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Hi, everyone. Can you give us an idea, in terms of availability of components from Intel, and specifically is that leading to any delays, in terms of getting the MacBook Pro out? Just specifics. You said February. I mean, it's earlier rather than later in the month?  

TIM COOK: Let me answer the question broadly about supply of the iMac and the MacBook Pro. We've begun to ship the iMac. We're very happy with how the production ramp is going. We are extremely happy with the response we had last week, as I said before, as we are hopeful that we can meet the demand for the quarter.  

On the MacBook Pro, as planned we are beginning to ship that in February. And given the number of weeks that would remain in the quarter to ship, and the extraordinary response that we've seen from our customers, we may not be able to meet demand on that product.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And with regard to any product constraints in the last quarter, any thoughts on air freighting, any incremental costs that were associated with any shortages?  

TIM COOK: In the current quarter that's factored into our guidance, we would be air freighting the Intel-based iMacs, in order to get those into customers' hands very quickly. We also in the results in our Q1, that Peter's talked to, air freighted some number of iMacs, as we had rolled the line-up in October.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Then finally, can you give us an idea of how many outlets you now are selling iPods in?  

TIM COOK: We are over 35,000 at this point, although we do not sell all models in all outlets.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Joel Wagonfeld of First Albany Capital.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY CAPITAL: Thank you. Three part question, if I could. #1, is there any chance the new iMac and Power Book have better gross margins, given the scale of the Intel ecosystem for other parts of the componentry?  

#2, is it accurate that the impacts of any price protection that you may have incorporated for planned discounts of the legacy G5 and G4 Macs already? Would that already have been incorporated in the December quarter, and hence it wouldn't negatively impact this March quarter?  

Finally I just want to be clear. Are you saying with your comments on the inventory, that you think supply and demand are now in balance for all of the iPods, including the Nano 4-Gig? Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Joel, Peter. Let me answer your first two questions, and Tim can address your third. As regards the Intel-based Mac gross margins, we don't want to provide specific gross margins for any of our products, and I've given you pretty detailed guidance for the December quarter. And I'm sorry, what was your second question?  

JOEL WAGONFELD: The impacts of any price protection would have already been incorporated last quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Right. As I had mentioned earlier, we are not going to talk about product plans, or pricing actions, that we've not already announced. But I can tell you that on any price protection that would affect our channel inventories, that we contemplate, we provided for in our December quarter. And future actions, beyond that would not affect the channel inventory, but March quarter sell-in, we have factored into our guidance for the March quarter.  

TIM COOK: Relative to the channel inventory on the iPod, on an aggregate basis, we believe that we're within our targeted range of 4 to 6 weeks, based on our current view of demand for the quarter. However, there are stock-outs in different places on different models and also, some countries, are leaner than others. We're working very, very hard right now to alleviate those situations.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Is the 4-gig still the key bottleneck?  

TIM COOK: The 4-gig is lean in places. We're working very hard to get more 4-gig Nanos out there.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray.  

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon, in terms of the big picture here conceptually, where you're going with the market share plan here, do you see yourself being a little bit more aggressive in 2006, in terms of your efforts to gain market share, maybe just in terms of breadth of distribution, and other ways that you can gain market share?  

TIM COOK: Gene is your question, on the Macintosh or the iPod?  

GENE MUNSTER: On the Mac side.  

TIM COOK: On the Mac side, we are very confident that we have selected the right course for the future of the Macintosh, and we reviewed processor roadmaps from many different sources, and knew that Intel has the best one by far. We have got the launch underway, we're very happy that we were able to do that 5 or 6 months before the expectation of doing it. We'll have the transition completed much earlier than the market anticipated by pulling it in until the end of 2006. And so we are very, very optimistic about the future of the Mac, and the way that we're headed.  

GENE MUNSTER: But there are also just a couple of, I mean, that's doing the product side, which I would say is very important, but there's also the distribution side, and the pricing side, and you guys couldn't probably have an opportunity to really put the hammer down in terms of picking up market share in 2006. So just conceptually, obviously you guys aren't going to talk about pricing, but do you see Apple being more aggressive at trying to gain market share in 2006, or kind of continue the status quo of creating the best products that, you know, happen to be more selective, in terms of distribution, and more selective in terms of price.  

TIM COOK: We're going to continue to make the best products on the face of the earth. That's the reason that we're here.  

On a distribution basis, we continue to open stores. We also continue to look at different alternatives in the channels, and when we find things that we like, and we would obviously do those if they're beneficial.  

I wouldn't want to comment on the price question.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Then last question is, outside the extra week in the December quarter, and outside of people postponing their purchases in anticipation of the Intel-based, is there any reason to think that the seasonality between December and March should be any different than previous years?  

TIM COOK: On the Macintosh or the iPod?  

GENE MUNSTER: The overall business. The overall seasonality between December and March.  

TIM COOK: Yes, there is a reason to think the seasonality at a total company would be different, because the music business was a much higher percentage of our business in the December quarter, than it had previously been. And so obviously the iPod would have a different seasonal curve, than the Macintosh would have.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. That makes sense. Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Richard Chu of Cowen.  

RICHARD CHU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Yes, hi, thank you. Just wanted to repeat, three questions on seasonality on the guidance. You are assuming, distant alert, I've seen a stronger seasonal decline in the music business than systems. Is that the point of your comment?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We didn't hear you, would you repeat the last part of your question?  

RICHARD CHU: The impact of -- Tim's response to the prior question was effectively that you are assuming a larger seasonal decline in music business than the Mac business.  

TIM COOK: What I'm saying specifically is that if you look at previous years for Apple, and Q1 results, and just look at the total revenue, we would not expect the total revenue to look the same sequentially, as it had in the past, because we were operating with a much higher music content in the Q1 and the holiday period.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. If I can follow on, second question, you kept as you've said, the old product price points unchanged. Can I fundamentally ask why? That would suggest that you assume users perceive the same value or performance for all the new. Could you comment on that?  

TIM COOK: We're selling the iMac G5 and the Power Book G4 15" product while supplies last, and we've factored our thinking into our guidance.  

RICHARD CHU: So you, effectively you're saying you see no need to reduce prices, despite the perceived difference in value.  

TIM COOK: I'm saying that anything that we're planning on doing we've factored into our guidance, and that we are only selling these while supplies last.  

RICHARD CHU: Finally, if my rough calculations on the implied music and video download revenue streams are correct, excluding that, downloads and iPod, the remainder of the music revenue streams look like the non-iPod, non-download music revenues increased dramatically, Q4 to Q1. Could you comment on that, and on the seasonality and dynamics associated with that business?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Richard this is Peter. There are now over 2,000 different accessories that you can buy with your iPod, and fundamentally, those are the revenue streams I think that you're referring to. We did very well with our sales of these in the quarter, both the Apple branded, and our third-party developers that we sold directly. We expect to have a good quarter in March, and honestly we're going to learn more about the seasonality of this part of the business, because it's bigger, it's growing.  

I've said this before, and I believe it to be the case that many people will buy an iPod, and then later come back to add accessories to it. And this seems to be a part of our business that has more of a recurring revenue stream. Much like the iTunes music store. We're very pleased with what we're seeing, and we're learning more about it.  

RICHARD CHU: Can you update us on profitability of the music store?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The music store in the December quarter did operate above breakeven.  

RICHARD CHU: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Richard Gardner of Citigroup.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Tim, was hoping you could just give us your standard pitch on component pricing and availability during the first and second fiscal quarters for the major commodities that you buy, then also I was hoping that you could give us the mix of web-direct sales in the quarter, please?  

TIM COOK: On a component basis, Rich, what we saw last quarter was that we had a very favorable component environment, both in terms of LCDs and memory, both of those were more favorable than we had predicted. As we enter into this quarter, we continue to see the LCDs being in a favorable environment, because supply is greater than demand. We do expect the DRAM market to stabilize some, as more of the manufacturing capacity is converted to NAND Flash. Hard drive prices continue to decline, but they're declining at a lower than historical rate, due to some underlying component shortages.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Any comments on Flash?  

TIM COOK: I'd continue to expect price reductions in the Flash area, as more and more people convert their DRAM capacity to NAND in the short term, but overall, as you can tell by the amount of prepay that we've elected to do, we viewed that particular market as not having as many downturns as some of the other commodity markets, and we believed it was very important to lock supply for the long term.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And then web-direct sales in the quarter?  

TIM COOK: We don't release the exact number, but I would tell you that the web sales were significant in the quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rich, I'll add that overall our direct sales, which include the web sales that Tim referred to, sales through our retail stores, and direct sales to U.S. education and enterprise and the music store, comprised 49% of total Apple revenue, and that was up from 44% in the year ago quarter.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Maybe, Peter, one more simple one for you. Can you talk about the location of the 40 new store openings that you've talked about for fiscal 2006, and how many of those are domestic versus international?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Would expect most of them to be domestically, but we'll continue to open stores in Canada, the UK and Japan as well.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Steven Fortuna, Prudential Equity Group.  

STEVEN FORTUNA, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Hi Peter and Tim. In terms of the seasonality of the iPod , in terms of which you are baking into the guidance, in terms of my model at least, so much of your earnings power for the quarter, and for the year for that matter, depends on upon assumptions one makes for seasonality in the March quarter. Looks like your guidance, if I'm doing it quickly, an perhaps it's not accurate, about a 45% sequential decline in iPods, it looks like you are baking in that kind of a decline to get to the numbers that you're guiding to. First of all, am I in the ballpark with that?  

Secondly, if you don't comment on the iPod thing specifically, how do you think about the broader CE markets, in terms of typical March seasonality?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Steve, it's Peter. I'll address that. I'm not going to provide specific product-level guidance. I didn't think you thought I would. But let me just make some comments about last year, and relate it a little bit to this year. Last year we did see a seasonal drop off, on the combination of our iPod and the iPod mini lines, which was more than offset by the introduction of the iPod Shuffle. And as was widely reported, and we've commented, the iPod was one of the top holiday gifts this season.  

It's natural to think that there would be a decrease in demand in the March quarter, from this exceptional holiday result, which again included a 14th week. You can go out and get some primary research on what would you see for, you know, various CE products.  

STEVEN FORTUNA: And then Peter in terms of, I'll leave that alone, and go on to my last question. Can you walk through, I think Tim commented on what he expects for components in the March quarter. Go through, if you could, kind of the puts and takes that you've factored into your gross March guidance?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Basically I am factoring in a different product mix, which would include fewer iPods and lower component costs.  

STEVEN FORTUNA: Great. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Keith Bachman of Banc of America Securities.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Two questions, if I could. Tim, I just want to clarify, I think what you said was you started the quarter with low inventory on the CPU side, and you ended a bit low too, so net/net it didn't sound like inventory played a big role in the December quarter on the CPU side. Could I just clarify that if I could for the first question?  

TIM COOK: We started below our range, we ended below our range, and we had planned that keep, because of the upcoming announcements that we made at MacWorld.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Great. The second question, is there any way to conceptually think about how your CPU business may split, in terms of units at all between the Intel side, and the Mac side in this quarter? Is there any kind of general parameters you could think about, since the vast majority of your platform is still on the IBM processor side, or the G processor side. Is it 80/20, or is there any kind of color you could give us there?  

TIM COOK: We're producing the best Macintoshes that Apple ever produced, and there are great products that have PowerPC processors in them, and incredible products that have Intel processors in them, and that we'll just have to see how the customers vote, in terms of the percentages of each.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Let me ask the software part of that question then, Tim, at least at MacWorld. Quark is running natively, and then the Apple software suite is running natively, and it sounds like [Rosetta] is still going to be a part of the software side of the equation, so you still have the emulation. Do you think that's going to cause people to pause at all, in terms of the performance that you're going to get?  

TIM COOK: What we're seeing is that Rosetta runs very well with products like Microsoft Office as an example, and as you commented, we've already ported the iLife suite and it's shipping on the new iMac, the new MacBook Pro, we have already ported iWork.  

Obviously the OS is native in all of the applications embedded in the OS, such as Mail and iChat, et cetera, are also ported. We have also announced as you may have heard, that the bulk of our Pro applications will be available in March natively. This includes Final Cut and Logic and Aperture, et cetera. There's a lot of things that are already native.  

In fact, since we've announced last week, the websites have reported over 200 native apps already, and well over 1500 widgets, and so we're seeing great momentum from our developer community, and I think by making the announcement, obviously people are even more anxious than they already were to complete the work. We're very confident that we'll continue to see great momentum in that area.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Any idea when Microsoft and Adobe might be native?  

TIM COOK: That's a question for them. However, we've worked closely with Microsoft on, with running with Rosetta, and I would invite you to try that yourself. We certainly believe that users will be very satisfied with that experience.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Fair enough. Thanks very much, guys.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: David Bailey of Goldman Sachs.  

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, good afternoon. You mentioned that iPod margins were above 20% in the quarter? Is that from lower component costs, or a better mix, and how sustainable is that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: David, I'm sorry I don't want to be specific on any of those parts of your question. We said that they were above 20% in the quarter, and I will report to you in April what they were for the March quarter.  

DAVID BAILEY: Okay. Let me try something on the Mac side. Do you expect to end the March quarter within your targeted channel inventory range, and if so, how much fill do you think you'll have in the quarter? How much have you included in your targets?  

TIM COOK: We don't project channel inventory, David. We guide to a total revenue number, and Peter has provided that guidance.  

DAVID BAILEY: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Shaw Wu, American Technology.  

SHAW WU, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH: Yes. Two questions. Europe looked like it was very, very strong. Just wondered if you could provide more color there, in terms of what happened there in terms of I guess the Mac business versus the music business. The second question in R&D, looks like it took a bit of a spike, in terms of absolute dollars but certainly not so, in terms of percentage of revenue. Just wondering how we should think of R&D spending? Should it remain at these levels, or could it trend down? Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shaw, let me address your R&D question, and Tim can talk a bit about Europe. As I mentioned earlier, we are very confident in our business, and we are investing in the business for long-term growth in both revenue and earnings. And a big part of that is our investment in engineering. And you've seen it go up each quarter for the last many quarters, and just expect us to continue to invest not only in engineering, but in opening more retail stores, more advertising and marketing programs, to grow the business.  

TIM COOK: Shaw, on the Europe side the Mac shipments were up 49% sequentially from September, but as you probably know the September quarter in Europe is a traditionally weak quarter, because of the summer vacations that happen across most of Europe.  

In terms of revenue, Europe, with the retail stores, was up over 50%, and frankly there were many countries in Europe that had more, relatively more iPod constraints, and so that revenue number was held down by iPods a bit more than some of the other geographies.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shaw. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Steve Lidberg of Pacific Crest Securities.  

STEVEN LIDBERG, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Good afternoon, guys. Was hoping first with regards to iPod, if you could kind of outline how you see the opportunity for the iPod, in terms of units, or other market comparisons, on the total opportunity available.  

Also, with regards to the creative professional market, can you comment with regards to the health of that market, both from a video perspective, as well as from publishing? Thanks.  

TIM COOK: On your second question on the creative professionals, we saw good growth in the video market on a year-over-year basis. We were very pleased with it. D & P was weak, and as you know the D & P market itself is not a hugely growing market, and so that's not out of our expectation by any means.  

In terms of opportunities on the iPod, we see the iPod as the absolute best player in the market. We've only recently announced the iPod Nano and the iPod. There's more video content on the way with the iPod. So I think there continues to be significant opportunity for the iPod in the overall music business.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Steve. Could we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: We have a follow-up question from Ben Reitzes of UBS.  

BEN REITZES: Good afternoon again. Couple things. Just caught me a little off-guard. That was pretty quick. With regard to other music at 491, much better than expected. I'm just wondering, you know, was there anything in there, that was particularly helpful meaning you're seeing a lot of extra shelves now of iPod accessories in many retailers, maybe if you're able to kind of talk to how much iPod accessories were in that number, and what is going on with the iPod ecosystem going forward, so we can model that line a little better?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, the two largest components of the other music related products and services, are first the iTunes music store, and then the iPod accessories, both the Apple branded, that we sell both directly and indirectly, and the developer iPod accessories, that we sell through the Apple on-line and retail stores. Both had significant growth year-over-year and sequentially.  

The music store, we couldn't be happier with its performance. As I indicated earlier we are serving customers in 21 countries, where over 90% of music is purchased, and we saw strong growth, both year-over-year and sequentially, not only in music but with the addition of video. And we look forward to bringing more content both here in the United States, and in other places before too long.  

The accessory business continues to grow for us, both in terms of the Apple branded and our developer support. We now have over 2,000 accessories that you can buy with your iPod, the vast majority that Apple doesn't make. As I said, we're beginning to see a bit more of a recurring revenue stream there, where people are coming, and adding back that next accessory to their iPod family.  

BEN REITZES: Well, will-- that line is where we'll see the new radio tuner, I believe?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, announced at MacWorld, yes.  

BEN REITZES: Now that radio tuner, any early indications on how that is doing?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well.  

BEN REITZES: And you can meet demand?  

TIM COOK: We're very pleased with the response on it, Ben, and we're working very hard to get units out. We are currently not meeting demand, but we're working really hard to try to do it, I'm not projecting whether we can or not for the full quarter at this point.  

BEN REITZES: I mean, is that like a millions units tracking type of device in the future, that kind of is a subset of iPod sales, is that the potential what we're looking at here with a high attach rate?  

TIM COOK: We don't give unit level guidance on the products.  

BEN REITZES: I guess you're hoping. Okay. Thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We have a follow-up question from Rebecca Runkle. Please go ahead.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Asked and answered. Thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rebecca. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: A follow-up from Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray.  

GENE MUNSTER: Mine's been answered as well. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thanks Gene, and thanks to everyone for joining us. A recording of today's call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days beginning at 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today.  

The number for the replay is 719-457-0820. And the confirmation code is 1699046. A replay of the audio webcast of this call will also be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today at  www.Apple.com/Investor .  

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570. I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our presentation for today. We do appreciate your participation. At this time, you may disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060201e21i001s1
  


 HD
 Q4  05 Apple Quarterly Earnings Call - Final  
   WC
9,102 words
   PD
11 October 2005
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss fourth quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead, ma'am.  

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SR DIRECTOR IR & CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Speaking as Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he will be joined by EVP of Sales and Operations, Tim Cook , and VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Wipler, for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you will hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, earnings per share, future products, Apple's retail initiative, and non-cash share-based compensation expense. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information please refer to the risk factors contained in the Company's form 10-K for 2004 and form 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2005. Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed will be posted on Apple's website at  www.apple.com/investor . I would like to remind you that the first quarter of Apple's fiscal 2006 will end on December 31, 2005 and will stand 14 weeks instead of the usual 13 weeks. In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet. With that I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are extremely proud to have just completed the best year in Apple's history. In fiscal '05, Apple generated nearly 14 billion in revenue, more than doubling the Company's top line in the last two years. We shipped 4.5 million Mac, up 38% from last year and 22.5 million iPods, up 409% from last year. As a result, we earned a record setting annual profit of over $1.3 billion. For the fourth quarter, we are very pleased to report yet another all-time company record for quarterly revenue and earnings. Revenue of $3.68 billion grew 57% year-over-year and operating margin increased to 11.4% from 5.4% in the year ago quarter. Net income of 430 million grew 306% year-over-year, generating earnings per diluted share of $0.50. Earnings per share benefited by $0.12 from favorable tax adjustments that I will discuss later in my remarks. The quarter's strong results were driven by very robust Mac sales, a highly successful back-to-school season and record iPod sales. As I have done in the past several quarters, I will now provide highlights of our two businesses, Mac and Music. Our Mac business generated 60% of total revenue and was up 28% from the year ago quarter. We shipped 1.236 million Macs during the quarter, which is the second highest quarterly total in the company's history. Mac shipment growth was 48% year-over-year, significantly higher than IDC's most recently published market growth forecast of 13% for the September quarter. We are extremely pleased with our portable system sales. We shipped a combined total of 634,000 I books and Power books, representing 41% year-over-year growth in beating last quarter's record shipments by 139,000. We shipped 602,000 desktop systems representing very strong year-over-year growth of 56%. At the end of the quarter, channel inventory of total Mac units was between three and four weeks, the lower target range of four to five weeks. Our music business generated 40% of total Apple revenue in the quarter and was up 133% compared to the year ago quarter. We shipped 6.45 million iPods during the quarter representing the tenth quarter in a row of sequential unit increase and setting another new record for quarterly shipments. We exited the quarter with total iPod channel inventories within our target range of four to six weeks. According to the latest data available from NPD Techworld, iPods accounted for 75% of MP3 players sold in the U.S. during the month of August. Last month we introduced the revolutionary iPod Nano which has already become a huge hit with our customers. We sold over 1 million Nanos in the first 17 days after its launch. The iPod economy continues to flourish with over 1000 third-party iPod accessories now available. 15 automobile manufacturers have announced support for direct iPod connectivity and we estimate the feature will be offered in about 30% of new cars sold in the U.S. in 2006. The iTunes Music Store continues to be the world's leading online music service and currently operates in 20 countries that represent about 85% of the global music market. We continue to add great exclusive features and content and have over 10 million customer accounts. We opened the iTunes Music Store in Japan during the quarter and it has already become the leading online Music Store in Japan. Based on the latest data from Nielsen Sound Scan, Apple continues to have more than 80% share of the U.S. market for legally purchased and downloaded music. The Apple retail stores delivered another solid quarter. Retail segment revenue grew to 663 million up 108 million sequentially and 76% from the prior year. The stores experienced very strong back-to-school business contributing to Mac unit sales of 202,000, a 106% increase over the prior year. Our most recent survey indicates that over 45% of the customers buying Macs in our stores are new to Mac. We opened 14 stores during the quarter bringing our quarter-end total to 124. With an average of 116 stores opened during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was 5.7 million up from 4.6 million in the year ago quarter. The retail stores segment profit was 35 million and the associated manufacturing profit was 133 million. Traffic through our stores continues to grow. Last quarter, 14.8 million people visited our stores, translating into 9,800 visitors per store per week. This compares to about 7,400 visitors per store per week in the year ago quarter. We just completed the fourth full fiscal year since launching our retail initiative. Retail segment revenue for fiscal '05 nearly doubled to 2.35 billion and segment profit grew to 151 million. We are very pleased with the continued growth and success of our retail initiative and expect to add 35 to 40 stores in fiscal '06. Our U.S. education channel had an outstanding quarter, generating 34% year-over-year unit growth and 24% revenue growth. Our U.S. education channel sold more Mac systems in Q4 than in any other quarter in the last ten years. K to 12 unit growth was 31% and included a 30,000-unit laptop purchase by the Broward County public schools in Florida. Higher education momentum continued to be strong with Mac units growing 38% year-over-year thanks to a very successful back-to-school season. In terms of geographic results, including sales from our retail stores, quarterly revenue in Europe, the Americas, and Japan was up year-over-year by 92%, 53%, and 30% respectively. Gross margin was 28.1%, about 40 basis points above our guidance, primarily due to a better-than-expected commodity environment and product mix. Operating expense was 617 million, in line with our guidance. Included in operating expense was approximately 10 million in non-cash share-based compensation. OI&E was 60 million, 7 million higher than guidance primarily due to higher than expected interest income. In terms of taxes, there were a number of factors that collectively benefited the quarter's results by $0.12. First, there were several items of an unique nature related to our net deferred tax assets and tax reserves, including adjustments to evaluation allowances and results of a favorable tax court ruling. These items benefited the quarter's results by $0.09. Second, notwithstanding these unique items, our tax rate for the full year was slightly lower than estimated in prior quarters further benefiting the quarter's earnings by $0.03. We expect the affected tax rate to be 32% in the December quarter. Cash grew by 735 million during the quarter to 8.261 billion and was up almost 2.8 billion for the full fiscal year. Cash flow from operations during the quarter was about 750 million. Total capital expenditures for the quarter was 96 million, including 49 million for our retail initiative. Looking ahead to the December quarter, I would like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, we are targeting revenue of about 4.7 billion. This target represents 35% year-over-year growth and an increase of over 1.2 billion year-over-year. As we had mentioned before, we will be adopting FAS 123-R in the December quarter, which will require that we reflect the theoretical value of stock options and the option value of employee stock purchase shares as expense in our income statement. For the last few quarters, we have been providing a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP operating results in order to present a view of our financial performance, excluding such items as noncash share-based compensation and investment gains. We think presenting such non-GAAP details provides meaningful information about our core operating results and facilitates comparison of results over multiple reporting periods. Beginning in Q1 this reconciliation will include the impact of FAS 123-R adoption. We think this reconciliation will be particularly helpful in viewing our fiscal '06 results, given that our prior results have not reflected the expense impact of FAS 123-R. In Q1 we expect the total noncash share-based compensation expense to be about $45 million or about $0.03 per share. Some of this expense will be reflected in cost of goods sold while most of it will be reflected in operating expenses. We expect Q1 GAAP gross margin to be about 27.3%. We expect cost of goods sold to include about 5 million related to noncash share-based compensation expense and, therefore, expect non-GAAP gross margin to be about 27.4%. We expect GAAP OpEx to be about 760 million, including about 40 million related to noncash share-based compensation. We expect non-GAAP OpEx to be about 720 million. We expect OI&E to be about 65 million and we expect the tax rate to be 32%. We expect to generate GAAP EPS of about $0.46 which includes an anticipated $0.03 per share related to noncash share-based compensation expense. We expect non-GAAP EPS to be about $0.49. We have just completed the best year in Apple's history, which we attribute to our focus on innovation and the immense talent and creativity at Apple. We remain very enthusiastic about our product pipeline and will have some very exciting announcements to share with you tomorrow. With that I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] We will go first to Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Can you hear me okay?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Good afternoon, I guess. Just a couple of quick questions. First in terms of Nano product constraints. Obviously there is a small delay in shipment on some of the SKUs. Can you just talk to how you expect that to track over the coming weeks and if you can close that sooner than later? And then I have a quick follow-up.  

TIM COOK, EVP SALES & OPERATIONS, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Rebecca, it's Tim. We were able to ship over 1 million Nanos in the 17 days that remained in the quarter from the launch period, but that is still far short of demand. Frankly speaking, the demand for this product is staggering. We ended the quarter with enormous backlog, and at this point, I can't project when supply would meet demand.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: But clearly you would suspect that that would be a major driver to fourth quarter iPod sales and I would suspect that you anticipate that this would be a huge product, and that while you couldn't ship everything you wanted in the last few days of the quarter, that you did plan for a pretty material ramp so you could optimize for the holiday season?  

TIM COOK: We factored in the available supply into the guidance that Peter gave that generated a $4.7 billion revenue guidance. We believe it is a revolutionary product, that the customer comments on it are fabulous, and it is a key part of our product line.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And then on the component side of the equation, I think, from our perspective, components played out a little bit differently than a lot of folks, including yourselves, anticipated at the beginning of the quarter. Can you just talk through some of the dynamics in the past quarter relative to your expectations and how you are thinking about component environment in December?  

TIM COOK: Sure. DRAM and LCD panel pricing were more favorable than we had anticipated and that resulted in a positive impact on our gross margins for the quarter beyond what we had planned. Looking forward, we expect that favorable pricing environment to continue on DRAM. The LCD prices have temporarily stabilized. We see that hard drives are declining but declining less than historical trends because of component shortages primarily in the glass CD area. Other things we believe will track along historical lines.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And then lastly, just in terms of helping us think through from a big picture standpoint, clearly a lot of macro issues which put the consumer at risk going into the December quarter. I don't think we have seen much evidence of that really impacting demand for -- for the industry as a whole and for you in particular up until now, but how are you thinking through that? And have you seen any slowdown recently as a result of some of the cross currents in the consumer environment?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rebecca, it is Peter. You know, as regards to the September quarter, we just had the best quarter in Apple's history. So I couldn't have been happier with how we did. As you look forward to the holiday quarter, you think about the rising price of oil and gasoline, and we think that most companies that are -- that are selling consumer products are paying attention to this. To date, the U.S. consumer has presumed -- you know, has proved to be resilient in the past, but we are monitoring this on a go-forward basis and we will see how it plays out.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: How did you attempt to quantify that in the guidance that you provided today?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We -- we certainly included that in -- in our thinking, but we have given very strong guidance for the quarter, as I have said in my prepared remarks, with revenue at 4.7 billion, which is up 1.2 billion year-over-year.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Thank you so much, Peter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rebecca. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Hi, good afternoon. Just curious, I mean, you have characterized the Nano demand as -- I wrote it here "staggering" I think. Can you just give us an idea of how the demand is coming in relative to what you saw for the iPod Mini when you first launched the iPod Mini.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You know I don't want to get into comparing the two. We launched Nano on a worldwide basis and initially we shipped Mini on a U.S. basis. However, I would tell you that in every major GO, the demand is staggering for Nano.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And can you talk a little bit about demand in the desktop segment? Just -- you know, your -- I think it was ASP down 9% year-over-year. What are the pressures there. Obviously I would assume a trend downward. But we are just curious about Mac Mini. If you can give any kind of idea of whether you are seeing pros mixing down or if it is just sort of as the general back-to-school shakes out with more focus on the lower end.  

TIM COOK: Shannon, regarding the desktop ASP year-over-year, it was down a bit. and I would attribute that related to two things. The first is in the year ago quarter, we were not shipping the Mac Mini. We are this quarter. And our iMac pricing is lower today than it was a year ago. All that being said, we were just very happy with our total Mac performance. Desktops were up 56%. Overall shipments up 48%.  

SHANNON CROSS: I guess I will ask the obligatory cash question. I think it is close to $10 share in cash. Any thoughts on use of cash? Obviously your stock is taking a hit after these numbers relative to expectations. Wondering where you stand on use of cash at this point?  

TIM COOK: I don't have a change in our philosophy that I can share with you today. We are maintaining our cash for flexibility to invest in the business. And share buybacks are considered with the board from time to time.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thanks. And we look forward to hearing what you have to say tomorrow.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Richard Gardner with Citigroup.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. A couple of questions. First of all, Tim, you made mention of factoring available component supply into your estimates for Q4, particularly for the Nano. Would it be fair to say that component supply is going to be the limiter for Nano shipments through the fourth calendar quarter.  

TIM COOK: Again, Rich, I am not going to project when supply will meet demand. We do have constraints in this area today that gate our shipment and so I can't project when that would remedy itself.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And as a follow-up, last quarter, Peter, you were willing to give us Tiger revenue. I think it was 100 million. Could we get that number again this quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Tiger revenue in the September quarter was in the mid $35 million range or $30 million range, and Tiger continues to be the best-selling release in Apple's history.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And then finally, I have a feeling I know how you are going to answer this question given that you have put up 48% unit growth, but are there any segments of the business where you have a better idea of the impact of the Intel transition on your Mac sales at this point? I think, Tim, last quarter you promised us after you had another quarter under your belt you would be willing to give us another qualitative assessment of what you were seeing on that front.  

TIM COOK: Rich, we saw no obvious impact of sales during the quarter but we are obviously continuing to monitor this. With 48% year-over-year, sales were just ecstatic about how the Mac was doing.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Just one last question for Peter. Peter, how would you characterize the airfreight charges in the quarter. Were they pretty much in line with what you typically incur or were they greater or lesser than normal?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: They were in line with what we expected to incur.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich, could we have the next question, please, and we'd like to ask everyone to limit themselves to one question, please.  

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Ben Reitzes from UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Great. You institute that right when I am asking. I wanted to ask a little bit more about iPod demand. Could you just talk a little bit more about the impact of the Nano on numbers. A million but you were doing very well with the mini. Did you actually see a hit versus expectations in the last month of the -- of the quarter because of the Nano? And then also, could you talk about the accrual for warranty and service on the Nano. Is that higher than other iPod products in terms of margin impact or any issues with regard to some of the things that people are talking about with the scratch and whether maybe you need to increase the accruals there on that product heading into year-end. Thanks.  

TIM COOK: Okay, Ben, hi, it is Tim. The iPod sales met our expectation and we sold more iPods in the September quarter than the June quarter, despite winding down the shipments of the most popular iPod, the iPod Mini, in preparation for the new best-selling iPod, the iPod Nano. Our sales accelerated in September after the intro of the iPod Nano and we told over 1 million across that first two and a half weeks, which fell far, far short of our demand. Over a year ago, we set out to create revolutionary updates to our core iPod line-up and last quarter was the final quarter for the older products. We think we did rather well with the prior line-up and believe that we will do even better with the new line-up that we have for the holiday season, including the iPod Nano and some very innovative new products that we have yet to introduce.  

BEN REITZES: Do you think product was pushed into the fourth quarter, it sounds like, quite a bit or the December quarter?  

TIM COOK: We ended the quarter with an enormous backlog on iPod Nano and again I can't, at this point, project when supply will meet demand.  

BEN REITZES: Then the accrual issue, Tim, please?  

TIM COOK: The issue you talked about on the scratch. We have had very, very few calls from customers regarding this. We do not believe it is a widespread issue, the iPod Nano is made from the same high quality polycarbonate plastic as the fourth-generation iPod was. If customers have a concern about this we suggest that they use one of the many iPod Nano cases that are now available in the market.  

BEN REITZES: So the accrual on this product is pretty similar to other iPods?  

TIM COOK: This certain topic is something very, very minor. I don't want to get into exactly what accruals are on different products.  

BEN REITZES: Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Keith Bachman with Banc of America Securities.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, thanks. I assume the moratorium on the one question has been lifted. [ LAUGHTER ] Getting back to the iPod numbers. Frankly, they look pretty weak. Normally in consumer space, you see kind of a bump from June to September, and you know most of the data we have seen suggested anywhere from 10% to 15% sequential growth from June to September. So I am just trying to really go back into why was this number where it was. In the first couple of months. and let me try it this way, in the first couple months of the quarter, there must have been pretty light demand if you did a million units in the last 17 days in Nano, that implies 5.4 million units for the quarter. What -- I am not sure I understand how the base level business was running if you did a million units and you normally see a pickup from June to September. Maybe I will leave it there and see if you can help me.  

TIM COOK: Keith, hi, it's Tim. Again, let me reiterate. IPod sales met our expectations. We sold more in the September quarter than we did the June quarter, despite winding down the shipments of the iPod Nano in preparation for the iPod -- excuse me, winding down the iPod Mini shipments in preparation for the iPod Nano launch.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Let me try it this way. What do you think the market will -- what do you think the sequential growth in the market will be from June to September and then September to December?  

TIM COOK: The latest data that we have from NPD would say that we continue to have around 75% share of the business in the United States.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. How would you anticipate the market growing from September to December in terms of total MP3 market?  

TIM COOK: I haven't seen specific -- a third-party market data for next quarter. Both Gartner and IDC are projecting over 100 million unit market for next year.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Joel Wagonfeld with First Albany.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY: Thanks very much. Was wondering if you could comment on the gross margin impact of the Nano and how that factors into your gross margin guidance for next quarter? And then if you have any comments or potential updates to your long-term operating model target and if not, any changes in terms of what you are expecting in terms of the business trends that will get you back to kind of that target operating model.  

TIM COOK: Regarding your first question on Nano margins, for competitive reasons, I don't want to speak about gross margin on any one of our iPods or even specifically about iPod gross margin or sales by geography. And in terms of --  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Could I ask a follow-up on that before you go on?  

TIM COOK: Sure.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: It is pretty widely speculated that you purchased a lot of the memory in advance of production for the -- the Nano. Are you forecasting that that supply will be used up and that you will have to then potentially face an increase in cost for that component specifically?  

TIM COOK: Joel, I don't want to comment on specific components and specific prices. We consider that confidential. However, once again, I would say that at this point we are not projecting when the supply of the iPod Nano will meet demand, the response to it has been incredible.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Thanks. And then on the target margin?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I have provided our detailed guidance for the December quarter with revenue growth of 35% and double-digit operating margins. I am going to continue our long-standing practice of providing detailed guidance for the current quarter only.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Great, thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Okay. Thanks. Just wanted to clarify again on the iPod. You are talking about the mini winding down . Were there any shipments of that during the quarter, and how -- you know, how much channel fill did you have the Nano. I think the million units you said was sold. Was there also additional channel fill above that or no?  

TIM COOK: Kevin, just to be clear, the 1 million was total shipments of iPod Nano, total sales for last quarter. So that includes all units for channels and end users, everything. What was your other question?  

KEVIN HUNT: Just, you have been mentioning about the iPod mini winding down, but I was wondering were there actual shipments into the channel or was it just pretty much just the channel clearing out throughout the quarter?  

TIM COOK: We did ship some iPod Minis during the quarter, yes. However, in a channel as large as we have, we obviously begin to wind down the shipments before the iPod Nano launched so that we would have fewer iPod Minis in the channel at that point.  

KEVIN HUNT: So is it safe to kind of conclude then that obviously you are winding down the Mini. Perhaps you didn't get as much Nano as you would have hoped and maybe not enough to compensate for the winding down of the Mini. Is that a fair statement just to kind of put all this to rest?  

TIM COOK: I don't want to answer that question specifically because we are not releasing exact sales of the different product groups, as you know. I would just reiterate that we left the quarter with an enormous backlog on iPod Nanos.  

KEVIN HUNT: Can I just throw one other quick one in. In December quarter you had more notebooks than desktops this quarter. What are you expecting in terms of going -- the December quarter is typically more of a desktop focused quarter. Is that true or is it just now where notebooks are going always be more than desktops? Any king of idea on that.  

TIM COOK: Kevin, we are not going to provide the product level forecast. We will report to you in January what we sold, but we were very pleased with both our desktops and our portables. And on the portable side, we set a new company record for Apple beating the record we set in the prior quarter by 139,000 units.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Can we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Andy Neff with Bear Stearns.  

ANDY NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I have two quick questions, if I could. One is, if you could just give a sense of why are the channel inventories for the Macs so low. That's surprising going into a season like this. And the numbers weren't necessarily larger than expected. Second, is an awkward question, but any update on Steve Jobs' health that you can provide us at this point.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will take the second and Tim can do the first. Steve has been back as the CEO full-time at Apple for over a year and is running the Company.  

TIM COOK: The channel inventory at the end of the quarter on the Mac was below the target of four to five weeks. As Peter talked about in his opening comment, we were in the three to four range and the reason for this end is simply that the Mac sell through exceeded our expectations.  

ANDY NEFF: Is that without any prior launches or anything like that? Or is it just a draining of the channel or anything you can talk about along those lines?  

TIM COOK: What I would repeat is that Mac sell through exceeded our expectations and we are working very hard to get the inventory back up to a level that we want it to be.  

ANDY NEFF: And then lastly just on the Mac Mini. I know you don't like to talk about products, but there is a lot of talk about perhaps a disappointing product. Can you tell us what your thoughts are about the Mac Mini general?  

TIM COOK: All of our products are doing well. We are happy with how all of them are doing and with a 48% year-over-year growth in the Macintosh area, the Mac is growing at between three and four times the IDC forecast for the quarter.  

ANDY NEFF: Thanks very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.  

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, thank you. Just to follow up on Rich's question. What have you assumed as an impact from the Intel transition in the December quarter either from revenues or margins? And if you could help us understand why you expect margins to be -- gross margins to be down in the December quarter. Thank you.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I've guided gross margins down a little bit in the December quarter largely as a result of an increased mix of our music products. And -- I am sorry your first question.  

DAVID BAILEY: Are you assuming that -- last quarter you said that you were a little bit conservative on the gross margins in the September quarter because you didn't know if there would be an impact from stalling before the Intel transition. I was wondering if you are giving that same caution to your December quarter guidance.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As Tim said, we have seen no obvious impact from that announcement in our September quarter sales. We are continuing to monitor it, and we have provided you guidance that we have reasonable confidence that we can achieve.  

DAVID BAILEY: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Rob Semple with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

ROB SEMPLE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thanks. Can you talk about the desktop business a little bit. I would have expected shipments to exhibit a little bit more seasonality in the September quarter. Any reason why they would be down so much?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah, the -- again, we couldn't have been happier with our overall Mac sales, both desktop and portable. As you look sequentially, the decline that you are seeing largely relates to our normal seasonal decline in K to12, and we -- the September quarter is more the higher ed quarter where you see a bit more on the portable side. And as Tim commented, our channel inventories fell below our target of four to five weeks and that played into it as well.  

ROB SEMPLE: Okay. Does your outlook for the -- for the December quarter incorporate the new products you are going to launch tomorrow?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we certainly know what we are going to talk about tomorrow, and I have contemplated that within our guidance.  

ROB SEMPLE: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Charles Wolf with Needham and Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO: Yes. Can you hear me?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, Charlie.  

CHARLES WOLF: I was greedily pleasantly surprised by the growth in Apple store sales, particularly the shipment of the Mac in the Apple store sales. Could you comment on any factor that might have contributed to the strong jump in sales between June and September?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we had, Charlie, just a fantastic overall back-to-school at a company level and the stores certainly participated in that. We certainly believe that the -- the iPod is helping us not only with our back-to-school business but across the Company, and traffic was very strong in the quarter. We had 14.8 million people that came through the stores and actually had over 50 million visitors in the entire fiscal year. So we couldn't be happier with the performance of our retail stores, not only in the quarter but for the year as well.  

CHARLES WOLF: My second question is, is there any chance that the Fifth Avenue store is going to open this year?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I can acknowledge that we are working on a store for the Fifth Avenue, and we are working to get it open, and would like to see it open before the end of our fiscal year.  

CHARLES WOLF: Thanks, Peter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Richard Chu with SG Cowen.  

RICHARD CHU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Yes, hi, thank you. Tim, back to fourth quarter -- I am sorry, the calendar fourth quarter. You alluded to the Nano plus forthcoming products that would [innocence] cycle the prior generation iPods. Could you comment on whether one should contemplate any execution risk associated with that? And then unrelated to that, can you tell us whether Apple is still thinking about mid-2005 -- 2006, I am sorry, as a timing for the Intel launch, and any -- any feedback or progress reports from ISVs on the Intel shift. Thank you.  

TIM COOK: Richard, we continue to expect to have Intel-based Macs in the market by June of next year.  

RICHARD CHU: Does that rule out a much earlier timing?  

TIM COOK: We continue to expect them in the market by June of next year. And we have no product announcements to make today. I would tell you that we have some very cool Power PCs in the pipeline and we are very focused on our current line-up.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. Then -- yes.  

TIM COOK: Relative to execution risk. There is execution risk on everything at all times and I have got nothing specific to call out.  

RICHARD CHU: Somebody asked earlier about the -- the -- your caveats last quarter about Intel as a reason for conservatism. So is it fair to say that looking -- your guidance for this quarter has no particular caveat on it?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, Richard, and I am not going to get into everything that we have factored into our guidance. We have given you our guidance and we have reasonable confidence that we can achieve it. As regards our Intel announcements, as Tim said, we have seen no obvious impact to our business in the September quarter, but we are continuing to monitor it.  

RICHARD CHU: Great, thank you so much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: Next is Steven Fortuna with Prudential Equity Group.  

STEVEN FORTUNA, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: I just have one question left, Peter and Tim, and that is your store mix next year. What is the geographic breakout of that roughly?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As I said, we expect to open 35 to 40 stores next year and the majority of those will be in the United States.  

STEVEN FORTUNA: Great, thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Harry Blount with Lehman Brothers.  

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, Peter. Just a quick question. Did you say in your comments that Mac Mini was about 200,000 units in the quarter?  

TIM COOK: No, I didn't say what Mac Mini was. I had mentioned, I think, the unit comment was that we had shipped 634,000 portables, which is a new record for Apple, up 139,000 from the June quarter  

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay, because -- the question I have is if you are looking at your market share on a year-over-year basis, taking out the Mac Mini, how is the Mac product line broadly defined on a market share basis doing if you take out that? Because that's obviously an expanded ASP segment. But the core business itself on a year-over-year basis, and then adjusted also for the education vertical. So, in other words, how is the core Mac business doing ex the education vertical on a year-over-year basis?  

TIM COOK: I think we are doing well in our business in those areas. And the portables, as I indicated, we are up 41% year-over-year. I believe that that is faster than the market's growing. So it would have taken share there. And I believe, based on the results that we've had for not only portables but desktop as well, we took share in the consumer market as well. And we certainly believe that we took share in education with our 34% year-over-year unit growth.  

HARRY BLOUNT: And also in the thousand dollar-plus segment as well?  

TIM COOK: I have not seen the data cut that way recently, so I don't want to comment.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Harry. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Next is Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest Securities.  

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST SECURITIES: Yes, thanks. Question for revenue on the channel mix. Could you give the breakout on the direct sales, you know the stores online, U.S. education and the Music Store? And then also any major product shifts in direct versus indirect in the quarter on the Mac side or on the iPod side?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will address your first question, Bill, and maybe Tim can comment on your second. You laid out what we include in the components of our direct sales and they were 51% for the September quarter.  

TIM COOK: Bill, we continue to invest in both direct and indirect channel. Both are very key for us. The iPod distribution is now over 30,000 storefronts worldwide. And as Peter said before, we continue to open new retail stores and also invest in our education sales force. So both of these are very key for us.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Given the fact that you only had 14 days to ship 1 million units, though, is it fair to assume that more units perhaps went through the direct channel here out of the gates here with the Nano or was there the mix you expected of direct versus indirect on the iPods.  

TIM COOK: We don't disclose the direct versus indirect mix of product level.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And then one last follow-up on the student union program. How did that go versus your expectation?  

TIM COOK: It was off the charts. It was a key contributor to the back-to-school season. As Peter said that our higher ed results, as an example, were up 38% year-over-year.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Richard Farmer with Merrill Lynch.  

RICHARD FARMER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Operating expenses grew at less than half the rate of revenue growth again. Do you expect that that kind of a relationship can continue for the foreseeable future? And then quickly on the iPod business, one of your executives, I believe it was Rubinstein, made a comment publicly not too long ago that Apple would sell 340 million iPods. Wonder if you might be willing to provide any color on the time frame over which you expect those sales to take place.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll take your second question first. I am not familiar with -- with that comment, and we do not make, I want to be very clear about this, product level forecasts. We will report to you our actual results, but would never make a forecast of that nature. You know, in terms of our operating expenses, we have made significant investments in engineering and marketing and direct selling that have resulted in revenue more than doubling in two years. We are continuing to manage an investment business for long-term growth in both revenue and earnings. And based on the guidance that I provided for Q1, I expect OpEx as a percent of revenue to be lower than last year.  

RICHARD FARMER: Okay. Quickly on -- on the CPU business which, as you said, was very strong at 48%, I wonder if you might be willing to share any thoughts on the halo effect and how big you think it is, particularly in trying to separate, where you can, the share gains that you are getting in computers that you contribute to iPod experience in consumers versus the share gains that are coming just from having strong computer offerings that are getting the loyalist Mac base to upgrade their machines.  

TIM COOK: Bill, we think that the 48% year-over-year growth, which is three to four times the IDC projected growth for this quarter, that the halo effect is a key part of that. Also the growth in higher education of 38% year-over-year is yet another indicator.  

RICHARD FARMER: Do you have any sense of how much of the share gains you can attribute to the halo effect versus other factor?  

TIM COOK: No, I don't. I think there are a number of great things going on. We have got the best product line-up in the Mac area in the history of the Company. We have a great iPod line-up. There is clearly a halo effect. How much is do to what, I don't know.  

RICHARD FARMER: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: Next is Bill Shope with JP Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: You stated that you wound down the iPod Mini, selling, obviously, throughout the quarter, had a banana launch. Was there any material reduction selling for any of the other iPod product lines outside the Nano, clearly, either the white iPods or the shuffle for whatever reason? And then the second questions would be in terms of your Mac inventory levels being below plan, is it just a build plan issue there or did you have some component constraints?  

TIM COOK: The key for the Mac is that the sell through was higher than we expected and therefore we ended with less channel inventory than we would have liked. And we are working very, very hard to remedy that situation. On the iPod, we don't release the unit sales of the individual iPod family.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Shaw Wu with American Technology Research.  

SHAW WU, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH: Okay, thanks. Just wondered -- this is probably a question for Tim. You talked about constraints in terms of Nano shipments. Just wanted to understand what the constraint was. In the past with the Mini, it was the one-inch microdrives and Flash seems to be plenty -- there seems to be plenty of it, especially with anticipation of Apple's use for it. Just wanted to understand more what is constraining nano shipments, thanks.  

TIM COOK: I don't want to get into specific components, the key here frankly is on the demand side. The demand is staggering for the product. And we're focused very, very much on getting as many out there as quickly as we can, but at this point we can't project when supply will meet demand.  

SHAW WU: Can you talk about what is constraining it? Is it a component? Is it the process?  

TIM COOK: We would never allow manufacturing capacity to get in the way of shipping a lot of these products. So it is a component constraint, and I would like -- I just don't want to go further with which one.  

SHAW WU: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shaw. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Steve Lidberg with Pacific Crest Securities.  

STEVE LIDBERG, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Good afternoon, guys. Tim, I was hoping that you could reconcile the commentary with regards to channel inventory on the iPod side of things being in line with expectations versus the backlog that you have on the Nano. What does that imply and, I guess, as you look further in the details particularly on the ASPs of the iPods, they bumped up. What is happening with -- with the shuffle, thanks.  

TIM COOK: I will let Peter comment on the ASPs. Let me take your channel inventory question, Steve. The iPod sales accelerated significantly after the launch of the Nano in September. And even though we were able to ship over 1 million Nano units in the two and a half weeks that remained, we fell far short of demand and ended with an enormous backlog. As a result of that, the weeks of inventory that we had in the channel fell to the low-end of our targeted four to six week inventory range.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Steve, on your ASP question. The ASPs were reasonably consistent from the June quarter to the September quarter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay, thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.  

CHRIS WHITMORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Just to follow-up on that last question. Can you comment on inventory levels of Mini in the channel? Is there an issue with those clearing? And how has some of your retail partners responded to the product transition and existing levels of Mini inventory in the channel? Thanks.  

TIM COOK: I don't see an issue with the remaining units of iPod Mini in the channel and retailers are calling me every day to try to get more iPod Nanos. So I think their focus, very much, is on getting as many Nanos as they can get.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Chris. Could we have the next question, please  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Rob Cihra with Fulcrum Global Partners.  

ROB CIHRA, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi, thanks very much. Could you give us any kind of more detail on the other music line in terms of iTunes, Music Store revenues or iPod peripheral breakout within that number? And whether you can on iTunes, whether it's a revenue breakout or whether it's just songs sold, where you are your last milestone in terms of cumulus songs, that sort of thing? And then also if you are, again, modestly profitable in terms of iTunes Music Store in the quarter and if your thinking there has changed at all, if the strategy is still the same to run it at around break-even or modestly profitable or if there is any kind of updates you can give us there in terms of that longer term strategy, given how big that business is now getting from a revenue standpoint? Thank you.  

TIM COOK: Rob, I will start with your last questions and work forward. The Music Store did operate above break-even in the September quarter and our philosophy and strategy is unchanged. We believe that selling music helps us to sell iPods and we are very focused on that. Our other music line includes sales from our Music Store and iPod related service and accessories and it was up 170% year-over-year.  

ROB CIHRA: And -- but within the -- the music only sales, can you give us a number on that or not?  

TIM COOK: We don't break that out, but as Steve recently announced, customers are downloading on purchasing over 1.8 million songs per day. And as I had said in my prepared remarks, our market share continues to be up over 80% in the United States as measured by Nielsen Sound Scan.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay, thank you. If I could actually get one more in given that no one else stuck to the one-question rule. Just quickly going back to the Nano constraints. Is there any of it a function of the build mismatch between 4 and 2-gig Nanos? Does that have anything to do with the supply constraint? Is that the issue or is that kind of a secondary issue?  

TIM COOK: Rob, the issue is a beautiful issue. The demand is staggering for the product and we are working very fast to get as many units out there as we can.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. That concludes our Q&A session. A recording of today's call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days beginning at 5 p.m. Pacific time today. And the number for that replay is 719-457-0820. The confirmation code 8596444. A replay of the audio webcast of this call will also be available beginning at approximately 5 p.m. Pacific time today at  www.apple.com/investor . And members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan's at 408-974-4570 and I am at 408-974-5420. Thanks again to everyone for joining us.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Apple Computer conference call. We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your phone lines at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020051025e1ab0018j
  


 HD
 Q3  05 Apple Quarterly Earnings Call - Final  
   WC
8,733 words
   PD
13 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss third-quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.  

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer. He will be joined by EVP of Sales and Operations, Tim Cook, and VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Wipler for the Q&A session with analysts.  

   TD
Please note that some of the information you will hear during this call consist of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, earnings per share, future products, and Apple's retail initiatives. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors contained in the Company's Form 10-K for 2004, the Forms 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2005, and the Form 8-K filed in June, 2005.  

Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed will be posted on Apple's website at  www.apple.com/investor . In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet.  

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, SVP OF FINANCE AND CORPORATE CONTROLLER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are very pleased to report the highest quarterly revenue and earnings in Apple's history. Revenue of 3.52 billion grew 75% year-over-year, and net income of 320 million grew 425% year-over-year, generating earnings per diluted share of $0.37. These results were driven by the highest Mac sales in over four years, record iPod sales, and the very successful launch of Mac OS X Tiger.  

Operating margin increased to 12.1% from 3.6% in the year-ago quarter. The operating results were a function of strong revenue growth which allowed us to better leverage our operating expenses, as well as higher-than-expected gross margin of 29.7%.  

First, let's review our Macintosh business results. Our Mac business generated 62% of total revenue and was up 29% from the year-ago quarter, driven by strong Mac and software sales. We shipped 1,182,000 Macs during the quarter, which is a record number in a June quarter for Apple and our highest level for any quarter in over four years. Mac's shipment growth was 35% year-over-year, about three times higher than the most recently forecasted market rate of growth for the June quarter as published by IDC.  

We refreshed the Power Mac G5, iMac G5 and eMac families early in the quarter, and shipped 687,000 total desktop systems during the quarter, representing an increase of 65% from the year-ago level. We shipped a total of 495,000 portable systems, an increase of 8% from the year-ago quarter, setting a new record for portable shipments in a single quarter.  

We had a very successful launch of Mac OS X Tiger. Customer response to Tiger's innovative new features such as Dashboard and Spotlight has been tremendous, leading to about 100 million in Tiger revenue and making Q3 the best single quarter for any OS release in Apple's history. At the end of the quarter, channel inventory of total Mac units was within our target range of four to five weeks.  

Now let me discuss our music business results. Our music business generated 38% of total Apple revenue, and was up 317% compared to the year-ago quarter. We shipped 6.2 million iPods during the quarter, representing the ninth quarter in a row of sequential unit increase and setting a new record for quarterly shipments. We exited the quarter with iPod channel inventories within our target range of four to six weeks.  

According to the latest data available from NPD Tech World, iPods had about 75% share of the entire MP3 player market in the United States during the month of May, while our next closest competitor had less than 5% market share. Two weeks ago, we merged the iPod and iPod photo lines creating a single line of white iPods, featured color displays and starting at just 299. And we lowered pricing on the 1 gigabyte iPod shuffle to $129. We also introduced iTunes 4.9, which integrates pod casting right into iTunes, enabling anyone to quickly and easily find and subscribe to their favorite pod cast. Within two days of the launch of iTunes 4.9, customers had subscribed to more than 1 million pod casts. Today there are over 4,000 free pod casts available. We are very excited about pod casting and see it as a great complement to the iPod experience.  

The iTunes Music Store continues to be the world's leading online music service. It operates in 19 countries which represents about 70% of the global music business. We are close to crossing the major milestone of 0.5 billion songs sold, and despite increased competition from companies like Napster, Microsoft and Yahoo!, our share of legally purchased and downloaded music in the United States has actually increased to above 80% as measured by Nielsen SoundScan.  

The Apple retail stores had another solid quarter. Retail segment revenue more than doubled from the year-ago quarter to 555 million. We opened seven stores during the quarter bringing our quarter end total to 110. With an average of 105 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was 5.3 million, up from 3.4 million in the year-ago quarter, a 56% increase. The retail stores segment profit was 29 million and the associated manufacturing profit was 101 million.  

Traffic through our stores continues to grow. Last quarter 12.2 million people visited our stores, translating into 8.9 thousand visitors per store per week. This compares to about 5.8 thousand visitors per store per week in the year-ago quarter. We continue to expect to end fiscal 2005 with 125 stores.  

We were very pleased with the results from our U.S. education channel. Both education revenue and Mac units increased 16% year-over-year, representing the highest education revenue in Mac unit results for a June quarter in the last nine years. Higher education revenue grew 34% year-over-year, while Mac units were up 35% year-over-year. These results were driven by strong desktop and portable shipments, the Tiger launch, and record iPod sales. Our K-12 Mac shipments were up 8% year-over-year despite a tough funding environment.  

In terms of geographic performance, including sales from our retail stores, revenue in Europe, the Americas, and Japan was up 89%, 75%, and 39% respectively. Gross margin was 29.7%, about 120 basis points above our guidance, primarily due to better-than-expected software sales, specifically Tiger and Final Cut Studio and a more favorable than expected commodity environment.  

Operating expense was 617 million, 17 million higher than guidance primarily due to variable selling expenses associated with the higher-than-expected revenue. OI&E was 46 million, 8 million higher than guidance primarily due to higher cash balances and better-than-expected interest rates. The tax rate for the quarter was 32% as expected. Cash grew by over 450 million during the quarter to 7.526 billion and is up over 2 billion fiscal year-to-date. Cash flow from operations was about 470 million. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were 63 million, including 34 million for our retail initiative.  

Looking ahead to the September quarter, I would like to review with you our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, we are targeting revenue of about 3.5 billion. This represents 50% year-over-year growth and is approximately equal to the record revenue of the June quarter, which included the highest quarterly software sales in Apple's history. This will be our first full quarter since our Intel transition announcement, and we believe positioning revenues sequentially flat is prudent as we learn more about the impact of the announcement on sales.  

We expect gross margin to be about 27.7%, which is within our target range. We expect OpEx to be about 615 million, and OI&E to be about 53 million. We expect the tax rate to be 32% and expect to generate EPS of about $0.32.  

We are very pleased with the fiscal year-to-date results with revenue growth over 70% and net income up five-fold compared to fiscal 2004. Our music business has grown a very impressive 317% year-to-date. We have also seen strong growth in our Mac business, where the unit growth rate has significantly exceeded the market rate of growth in each of the last three quarters. We are looking forward to completing the best fiscal year in Apple's history, and we're very enthusiastic about our product price line. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] We will take our first question today from Ben Reitzes with UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon, guys. Thanks and good quarter. The main question I have is on guidance. I am looking back, and I've never seen a flat quarter, flat-to-down quarter in revenues since 9/11, and I realize you have the Intel transition, but if you could explain that in more detail. It seems that your Company is in so many areas, so much better positioned heading into the September quarter, I still don't understand flat-to-down revenue guidance. When you announced on June 6th the Intel transition, did sales fall off or something to make you so conservative?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben, let me start with the first part of your question, and Tim can add some comments regarding the second. The June quarter exceeded our expectations by over 250 million, and this was partially driven by the very successful launch of Tiger, and its effect on Mac sales. As we look forward to the September quarter, we would expect a sequential decline in software sales, and I would expect other product sales to offset that decline.  

Additionally, we are also being prudent in our first quarter after the Intel transition announcement and expect to learn more this quarter. The guidance that I have provided at 3.5 billion project very strong year-over-year revenue growth at 50%.  

TIM COOK, EVP OF WORLDWIDE SALES AND OPERATIONS, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Ben, on your second question about whether the Mac sales slowed after the transition announcement. It is a difficult question to answer; however, I would point out two pieces of data. One is, as Peter said in the preamble, Mac grew at three times the market rate of growth. Secondly, we saw no obvious reduction in the sell-through post the announcement. Now -- however, we have limited data at this point. It has only been a few weeks, and we expect to learn more in the current quarter.  

BEN REITZES: One last thing, Tim. Is there -- is there -- part of the conservatism perhaps with the flat revenue, could that be due to maybe new products coming that you perhaps are factoring in, maybe product transitions? I know you don't preannounce products, but you always have products coming out. Is there a transition risk built in there not Mac-related or anything like that?  

TIM COOK: We don't comment on new products. The reasons are, as Peter said, we are being prudent on the announcement, and frankly, we think that 50% year-over-year growth is stunning.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. And then just last -- just before I go. R&D beat our expectations by quite a bit. You spent a lot more. Is that a one-time blip and go back down or is that the level here that we should expect with your new product portfolio that you don't discuss?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, Ben, as I commented on the last call, we had capitalized about $15 million of Tiger development in the March and December quarters, and we shipped Tiger early in the June quarter and cease capitalizing. So, absent anything else changing in the world, that is the biggest explanation for the increase; however, we are continuing to invest in -- in innovative products, and we will continue to make investments in R&D to continue to -- to come out with great products.  

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot, guys, appreciate it.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Andrew Neff with Bear Stearns.  

ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Sure. Thanks very much. Just wanted to go -- wonder if you could go into a little more -- give us a little more color on the different product lines beyond -- you know different breakout now. If you could talk about the Mac mini, et cetera. Give us some color on that. Second, if I could, just on the transition issue, as you move to a transition,a new system, have you worked out what users would have to do in terms of will they have to buy new software and how that's going to work out?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Andy, I will answer your first question, and Tim will discuss your second. The Mac mini is appealing to a broader, more price-sensitive customer base, and we think it is helping us to expand our installed base. These customers are looking for an affordable way to try our OS X and iLife. And I think that the bring-your-own-keyboard display and mouse message has resonated with many of these customers and they are doing that.  

ANDREW NEFF: Do they meet your expectations?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We -- again, with our total CPU sales up 35% growing about three times the market rate of growth, I couldn't have been happier with the performance of our Mac business this quarter.  

ANDREW NEFF: And the iMac and the PowerMac, any comments on that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Was pleased with the performance of all of our products.  

ANDREW NEFF: And the notebook side, any comment -- any more color on that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We set a record for the quarter at 495,000. So it was the biggest portable shipment -- shipment quarter in the Company's history.  

ANDREW NEFF: Okay. Thank you.  

TIM COOK: Andy, on your other question about the developers reporting software, the reaction we have had from the developer community are that they are very excited about the transition. In fact, before the week-long developers conference was over, over 100 applications were already recompiled and running on Intel-based Mac.  

ANDREW NEFF: But will users have to buy -- when they buy a new system, will they have to buy all new software, I guess is my question?  

TIM COOK: There will be software -- yes. However, we will also offer a translation technology that we call Rosetta which will allow most power-PC based Mac apps to seamlessly run on new Intel-based Macs. Where there is some impact on performance, most applications will run fast enough.  

ANDREW NEFF: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: For our next question we'll go to Richard Gardner with Smith Barney.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Great, thank you. Peter, I was hoping you could walk us through some of the factors that are going to push down margin sequentially in the quarter. I suspect a down-tick in software revenue, as well as the pricing actions that you have taken, probably figure prominently, but anything else that we are missing there?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, I expect the gross margin to decline primarily as a result of a decline in software sales as Tiger and Final Cut Studio head into their second quarter. We normally see the best software sales in a release's first quarter, and we do expect the commodity environment to be less favorable as we head into the back-to-school season, and Tim may want to make a few comments about what he expects there.  

TIM COOK: Rich, in the quarter that we just finished, it was a great quarter from a buying point of view. DRAM and Flash both fell more than we anticipated, and other commodities were down in the aggregate slightly more than we predicted; however, going into Q4, primarily due to the typical industry-wide seasonal demand that occurs in this period of time for back-to-school, we see DRAM increasing from the lows that we experienced last quarter. We also see certain sizes of flat-panel displays rising. And finally, we see that declines in hard drives are likely to be lower than historical norms due to component shortages in that industry. Other commodities we believe will likely follow this trend.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And if I could follow up. Peter, in any comments or -- I guess anyone. Any comments on the weakness that we saw in Japan in the quarter? It looked like you were gaining some traction in Japan up until this recent quarter, and then all of a sudden we saw a pretty sharp drop-off. I suspect part of that is just seasonal, but any other factors at work there?  

TIM COOK: Rich, when you combine sales from our retail stores in Japan into the geographic revenue stream, we grew revenue 39% year-over-year and the Mac unit sales were down 2%. We did reduce Mac channel inventory in Japan during the quarter, and when you take this into account, our Mac unit sales increased slightly more than the forecasted rate of growth by IDC which was 5%. While the revenue performance over the past two quarters has shown a marked improvement from last year, I am unhappy with our performance in Japan, and we are continuing to make changes both in our indirect and direct channels in order to improve our performance.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question today comes from Shannon Cross with Cross Research Equity.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH EQUITY: Good afternoon, can you hear me?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.  

SHANNON CROSS: I apologize I just picked up the handset. Looking at the ASPs on iPod, with the declines we saw this quarter, obviously a shift to shuffle, and I would assume iPod minis. What can you tell us about gross margins and are you still keeping sort of a goal of around 20% for the remainder of the year?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shannon, I do not want to be specific about gross margin and we will not talk about iPod sales by particular iPod or geography because we just don't want to help our competitors. But the gross margin for the blended iPod family was close to 20% in the quarter.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. So you maintained it even with the decline in ASPs.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: It was close to 20% in the quarter, and I will speak with you in October about what we saw in the September quarter.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And then just a follow-up on Tiger. Can -- and I apologize if I missed this, but did you give a revenue number for Tiger specifically? And do you have a percent installed base of Macs that are now on OS X at the end of the quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, the Tiger revenue was about 100 million in the quarter, making it the best-selling release in our Company's history. And the installed base of Mac OS X is close to $16 million at this point.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thank you very much.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You are welcome.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: For our next question we will go to David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.  

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, two questions, please. The first is, that your sales and operating profit per store seems to have dropped for the second consecutive quarter for the Apple retail stores. Is this just seasonality or is there something else going on?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: David, largely it is seasonal. The June quarter is the lowest seasonal quarter for -- for consumers, but we were really happy with the performance of our retail stores. Segment revenue more than doubled from the year-ago quarter. And average store sales were up 56% from the year-ago quarter.  

DAVID BAILEY: And then the second on education -- on the K through 12 education. Do you have any idea what the overall industry grew? Do you think you gained share in K through 12?  

TIM COOK: David, it'sTim. The IDC forecast for education was that we would actually see a negative rate of growth of 2%. I believe they will revise that up, but that nevertheless is their current -- current view. If that holds, obviously we gain share with a 16% year-over-year comp.  

DAVID BAILEY: Is that just on the K through 12 or is that all education?  

TIM COOK: That's all education. IDC does not break out K-12 in higher ed.  

DAVID BAILEY: And what is your feel on K through 12? Do you think that it was growing about your rate or faster than that?  

TIM COOK: I think K-12 still suffers from significant shortfalls of tax revenues; however, we saw a somewhat an improvement last quarter, and with that, we grew 8% year-over-year. In particular, California was much better than in the previous quarter. And so, I would hope that that continues, but there's been a long stretch here since 9/11 that K-12 has had.  

DAVID BAILEY: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Sure. Our next question comes from Kevin Hunt from Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Okay. Thank you. Actually I had two quick questions. First, I know you don't want to give too much detail on the categories. I wonder if you can break down the desktop. That seemed to be pretty strong in the quarter. Maybe you could give us the relative strength of some of those products, the relative expectation or overall growth, kind of what was the strongest of the desktop products?  

And the second question is regarding more the iPod and the long-term outlook for your music business. Obviously, you had pretty amazing strength in the iPod to date. You have, I think, supposedly this Motorola deal coming up here soon with the iTunes which is a little bit of a different model. And just kind of wanted to get your take on the long run for Apple if the music business is going to be more of a software play or more of an integrated hardware/software which the iPod would be today.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Let me start by talking about your iPod questions, and then Tim can add any color he'd like to on the desktops. I am very pleased with the performance of our music businesses. As I commented, it is up 317% year-to-date, and as I think about our products, while I am respectful of our competition, we have been making big investments in engineering and marketing in both the iPod and the iTunes Music Store, and I think our hardware and software products and our Music Store are by far and away the best out there.  

And while we are always looking over our shoulder at our competition, as I said, I think our products are the best in the market today, and we are hard at work on the next generation of innovative new products, and I just think the team here is extremely creative, and as I commented, I -- I am very excited about what is in the product pipeline.  

TIM COOK: Kevin, on your question on desktop. We don't disclose individual desktop SKUs. However, I would tell you that the Mac mini continues to be an important factor in Apple's overall growth, and we believe it is continuing to attract a broader and both price-sensitive customer. And the flat-panel iMac is still viewed to be extremely good by our customers and is selling quite well.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Rob Semple with CS First Boston.  

ROB SEMPLE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: A question on the notebook growth. It's obviously going to come in a little bit slower than the overall market. Do you think you are suffering from having never put a G5 in it? What explains that in your opinion?  

TIM COOK: On the notebooks, Rob, I would point out that we almost hit 0.5 million units, which is a record for us, and the comparable that we are up against there year-over-year, we refresh both the iBook and the -- and the PowerBook. And so it is a very tough compare.  

ROB SEMPLE: Okay. And then can you just give us the amount of business going direct this year in the same quarter a year ago?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes. In Q3, our direct business was 48%, and then the year-ago quarter it was 51%.  

ROB SEMPLE: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Bill Shope with J.P. Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Okay, great. Thanks. Can you give us an update on the percentage of new to Mac buyers in the retail stores? And then looking at Intel transition, do you have any formal education or advertising programs planned to help convince consumers that there is little risk in transitioning or purchasing a power PC Mac ahead of the transition?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: In regards to your first question, the new to Mac in the retail stores continues to be in the low to mid-40%.  

TIM COOK: Bill, on your second question, we expect to have Intel-based Mac in the market by this time next year, and because of that, we have a very long time to think about the answer to that.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Great, thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go now to Joel Wagonfeld with First Albany.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY: Thank you. Two questions. First is, can you give us a percentage of the OS X install base that is now on Tiger? And what you are assuming that goes to next quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Joel, I don't have that calculated. We shipped over 2 million copies of Tiger during the quarter, including sales at retail, volume licenses, copies that we shipped under deferred maintenance agreements and on new Macs. And as I commented a little while ago, we are close to 16 million installed base for Mac OS X.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Thanks. The second question is, I was wondering if you can just comment at all on progress in terms of working out revenue-sharing agreements with the phone carriers. It has been reported in the UK press, I guess, that Motorola and Virgin are going to unveil the iTunes phone in the UK on August 20th or 21st. And I was wondering if that's an anomaly or if that signals that your getting close with some of the other carriers as well.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Joel, I am sorry. That is a question I just can't answer.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go now to Keith Bachman with Banc of America.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, Peter, just real quick. The last comment you made for Joel, you said the 16 million unit installed base was Apple's installed base or Mac? I missed the characterization of what that was.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Keith, it was installed base on Mac OS X.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. And then any comments on -- your price points were down on iPods, is there any color that you can help us think about the market? What you expect from market dynamics over the next two, three quarters on the MP3 market? Is this the kind of sequential change that we should be thinking about? Any color there at all?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We can't get into that, because I can't talk about our future products. I can just tell that we plan to continue to be aggressive with price performance in the market, and as I look out over the horizon, I am very excited about what is in the product pipeline.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Let me try it a different way then, Peter. In the past you have been willing to commit to maintaining margins at the 20% level for the family. Is that something that you characterize -- would like to reiterate?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You know I don't believe that I have ever committed to maintaining margins. I think what I've said I will do is give you an approximation of what they were each quarter as I just did a few minutes ago.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. In terms of the final one for me is, we think about past software cycles have lasted a little over a quarter. I would assume that Tiger will still provide some benefits in the September quarter. Could you comment on that please?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. As I had indicated, Tiger sales in its first quarter were the best for any OS release at about 100 million. We historically have seen the highest sales for any software release in its first quarter, and while I am not able to give you a specific product forecast for Tiger, what we saw with Panther, it declined by about 60% in its second quarter. But, there is always a good tail or at least this has been in the past from prior OS releases, and I wouldn't expect that to be a lot different for -- for Tiger. The response from customers has been tremendous. And we are very happy with the release.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thank you, Peter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Yes. We will go next to Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest Securities.  

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST SECURITIES: A couple of questions on the product development side. Any surprises as you're beginning working on the development here of the Intel-based Macintoshes, and is there any change to Steve's announcement in terms of mid '06 delivery for the Intel products?  

TIM COOK: We still expect to have Intel-based Macs in the market by this time next year, and beyond that, I have nothing else to share.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And also, in the -- when you look at the pro-graphic and pro-audio segment, can you comment what you are seeing there for spending trends? And does the challenges of transitioning a higher-end PowerMac processor, is that affecting the pro-graphic, pro-audio PowerMacintosh business?  

TIM COOK: The pro-video sales that we show -- that we had last quarter were extremely impressive year-over-year, particularly after our product announcements at NAB which just occurred in April. Pro-audio sales were also good from a year-over-year point of view. And lastly, the DMP market saw some signs of life last quarter in some channels and countries, but continues to have an overall slower growth rate.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And then one last question on cash, the cash position continues to get better. Any update this quarter on stock repurchase and your plans on that score? And that's my last question, thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, I don't have a change in our position to share with you today. We are continuing to maintain our cash for flexibility to invest in the business and do acquisitions, and from time to time, share buybacks are discussed with the Board.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Harry Blount with Lehman Brothers.  

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, Peter. I want to circle back. I believe your comment on inventory levels were at reasonable levels. I wanted to get a little bit better understanding on the numerator and denominator on that calculation, both for the iPod and the PC. Can you maybe help us in terms of what channel inventories were up on a year-over-year basis or sequentially for both products? And then also maybe a little bit of an update on the number of storefronts currently distributing the iPod and the number of storefronts currently distributing the Mac.  

TIM COOK: Harry, on inventory, both the Mac and the iPod ended the quarter in their targeted inventory lines. On the iPod in particular, we began and ended the quarter within the range of four to six weeks. And we believe that most locations that we had around the world, our channel partners and our direct stores had good supply during the quarter, and that the 6.2 million unit number that Peter referenced in the preamble was representative of end-user demand during the quarter.  

In terms of the number of storefronts that are now selling iPods, we have approximately 25,000 around the world, which is an increase from around 21,000 that we had in previous quarters.  

HARRY BLOUNT: And then on the PC side too?  

TIM COOK: On the Mac ended -- began and ended the quarter in the targeted four- to five-week range. We feel extremely comfortable with the inventory level.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay. Just to clarify on that inventory levels. The four to six weeks obviously reflects a -- the increase in storefronts from 21 to 25 for the iPod, but do you have a sense on the PC's increase in storefronts?  

TIM COOK: There was no measurable difference in -- from the last conference call in the Mac.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And, Harry, I would like to clarify. Independent of the increase in the storefronts, what Tim said was that he felt that the 6.2 million iPods that we sold was representative of end-customer demand.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Correct, so basically if we took a look at the last quarter aborted and the 6.2 this quarter, that is directionally consistent with the overall sellout?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: It would be representative.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay, great.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Harry. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Rob Cihra from Fulcrum Global Partners.  

ROB CIHRA, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi, thanks very much. Two separate questions if that's okay. One, you had mentioned things like Rosetta sort of helping you hopefully mitigate the risk of people pausing before the Intel transition. Are there other things you can do maybe less technical and more in terms of product positioning, that sort of thing? What are you thinking about to try to keep people interested and not just all wait for the new platform.  

And then totally second -- totally separately, with NAN [ph] Flash having cratered over the last few months in terms of pricing, does that change or has that changed your sort of product matrix set up in terms of shuffle low-end iPod mini middle and white at the high end, or is that kind of product set-up still -- still valid even with the changes in Flash prices. Thank you.  

TIM COOK: Rob, on your first question, we believe that we are currently shipping the best line-up of Macs in the history of the Company, and we plan to introduce more power PC-based Macs in the coming quarter -- quarters that are excellent. And that's the best way for us to -- to prevent customers from doing something different. However, we obviously aren't predicting if any will delay, and if so how many. Your second question?  

ROB CIHRA: Just in terms of with -- with Flash prices having come down so much over the last few months.  

TIM COOK: On Flash, we saw a positive difference in Flash prices last quarter, as you know in the market, and we don't disclose our thinking on new products.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay. But I guess, was it -- was it more than you were expecting? Or was that pretty much what you maybe thought was going to be the case anyway?  

TIM COOK: It was more than we expected, and, therefore, we had a positive impact on our gross margin in -- that Peter talked about earlier.  

ROB CIHRA: All right, great, thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question today comes from Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon. Thanks. Just a couple of quick questions. First, as you -- I guess the 25,000 iPod distribution points, Peter, I am assuming that the bulk of that is the 3,500 U.S.-based Wal-Mart stores that you started to ship into, but can you confirm that? And then give us perspective in terms of, are you fully rolled out at Wal-Mart in terms of shifting to full allocation?  

TIM COOK: Rebecca, Tim. On Wal-Mart, with the results of the pilot that we had that we started running the previous quarter, we did elect to expand the distribution of the iPod shuffle to about 95% of their stores during last quarter. We also rolled out the select mini and white models to about 25% of the stores. We are continuing to watch this and decide whether to go further with that, including investigating some of their International locations.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And then just shifting gear. If we look at your own inventory levels, they were up about 18% or so sequentially, not big in terms of days inventory by any mechanism. I think the bulls will point to the fact that you are suggesting there are new products on the horizon while the bearers will point to the potential for inventory build. Any color in one direction or the other that you can provide us on inventory?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rebecca, I would say that neither -- neither of those are the case. The inventory was primarily -- primarily increased -- increased sequentially as the result of the fact that we opened about seven -- seven retail stores during the quarter.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And then last question, Peter and/or Tim. If we go back and look historically, can you just talk through seasonality of higher ed. It was up 34%, I believe you said, year-on-year in the June quarter, but is higher ed more important, same, less important as we look toward the September quarter? How should we think about that?  

TIM COOK: Relative to K-12. K-12 is stronger in the quarter that we just finished. Higher Ed is relatively stronger in the quarter that we are now in, in the critical back-to-school season, and we believe that with the growth rates we have experienced in higher ed, the 34% revenue figure year-over-year that Peter talked about earlier that we are well-positioned for the back-to-school season.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Would you say that's one of the segments where you are taking the fastest amount of market share on the CPU side is in higher ed?  

TIM COOK: There is not a third-party service that I am aware of that reports market share in higher ed. My own view would be that the higher ed market is obviously not growing at 34% obviously. It is a very mature market.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Okay. Thank you very much.  

TIM COOK: Yes.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rebecca. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Sure. Our next question comes from Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.  

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good afternoon, everybody. If we could just go back to the original -- Ben's original question at the start of the call here in terms of the Intel comments. I just want to make sure I understood what your comments were about, have you seen an impact specifically from -- since now in the last month since that Intel announcement has been out on your CPU business, I guess is my first question, or is it just the fact that you are essentially expecting some sort of slowdown as this kind of -- this news gets through the market?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, it is difficult to know for certain; however, I would point to two pieces of data. The first is that our Mac grew three times the market rate of growth last quarter. We are extremely pleased with that. The second is, we saw no obvious reduction in sell-through post the announcement that you are alluding to. I would -- I would say, however, that we have very limited data. It has only been a few weeks since we made that announcement and we expect to learn more this quarter and so we are being prudent with our guidance through Q4 as a result of that.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Excellent. And second question, maybe just kind of a business theory question here is that it appears that the halo effect is real. You are growing at three times the market rate. Why don't we see more advertising around the halo effect? It just still seems to be predominantly iPod-based.  

TIM COOK: Well, if the -- if you believe that the iPod is creating a halo, advertising iPod also helps us in the Macintosh side, and we clearly believe that.  

GENE MUNSTER: Have you guys done any sort of -- I assume you have done some formal -- you've always kind of reference the student monitor data. Can you let us inside a little bit of some of the internal data maybe you guys have looked at in terms of what that effect might actually be?  

TIM COOK: There is no internal data that -- that I would like to share today.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Have you guys actually done some formal stuff related to that?  

TIM COOK: We look at a variety of things, but the -- overwhelmingly, the one we look at the most is how many Macs did we ship in the quarter, and we -- our rate of growth was three times the -- the market and has been for three quarters now, and so we're -- we're extremely enthusiastic about that.  

GENE MUNSTER: Then one just final question in terms of the iPods. As you switch from the black and white to color screen, the inventory that is kind of within the market. How does that work itself out of the market?  

TIM COOK: The ones that were there have a slightly reduced price versus what they had before, and we believe they will readily sell through.  

GENE MUNSTER: Good. Thank you very much. And congratulations.  

TIM COOK: Thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go now to Steve Milunovich with Merrill Lynch.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Can you disclose how much you shipped in terms of iPod to Hewlett Packard and where you think that might go in the future? Also, any comment in terms of the profitability of iTunes? And finally, share count was not up as it has been in previous quarters, so at this point, is share count pretty much the function of stock price?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Steve, I will take your last two questions, and Tim can do the first. Related to share count. That has really been increasing over the last couple of quarters. Mostly based on employee option exercises. That's been the -- the largest in primary factor. Regarding the iTunes Music Store, it did operate above break-even this quarter.  

TIM COOK: On HP. HP represented less than 8% of our total iPod unit shipments for the quarter. We don't predict where that number will go. If you look back in history, you'll find that it has ranged from around 2 or less than 2 to around the less than 8 number.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Can you remind us what it was last quarter?  

TIM COOK: I believe it was less than 2 last quarter is my memory.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think or 3.  

TIM COOK: 2 or 3. It was a small number.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thank you.  

TIM COOK: Yes.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Steve Lidberg with Pacific Crest.  

STEVE LIDBERG, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST: Good afternoon, guys. First of all, with regards to the iPod battery settlement. Did you guys take a reserve against that this quarter? And also on the foreign currency front, how did it impact P&L? Thank you.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will answer your iPod battery question and Gary Wipler will discuss foreign currency. In litigation matters, the accounting rules require you to make an estimate once you believe a loss is probable, and you can reasonably estimate it. We had -- as we had been saying in our SEC filings, had been aware of this matter since December of '03. We have made our estimate, and feel that we are adequately reserved.  

GARY WIPLER, VP, CORPORATE TREASURER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: And with respect to the effects. In general, a stronger dollar would be a headwind; however, some of this is dilutive as is our practice to hedge -- to anticipate cash flows out three to six months, and on a lag basis, we try to catch up with spot rates in our local pricing. As such, since most of this dollar strength happened in the April, May, and June months, we are somewhat insulated from the dollar strengthening move for both the June quarter and the September quarter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go now to John Jerad with Founders Fund.  

JOHN JERAD (ph), ANALYST, FOUNDERS FUND: Good afternoon. I was hoping you guys could maybe give us some updated thoughts on how you see the subscription model versus the just straight purchased music model for iTunes versus some of your competitors?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. With our share of legally purchased and downloaded music here in the United States now growing to over 80% as measured by Nielsen SoundScan, we just don't think very many customers are interested in renting their music. So we think that the success of the iTunes Music Stores show that most customers want to own their music.  

JOHN JERAD (ph): Great, thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, John. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our last question today comes from Richard Chu from SG Cowen.  

RICHARD CHU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Yes, good afternoon. Three quick things if I can. On Tiger, at the beginning of June, you had already said you had 2 million shipped. Do you have an updated number on that? And if I can follow-on on two things.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Richard, we -- we did ship several hundred thousand more copies of Tiger in the last few weeks of the quarter. Mostly on new Macs and on volume license arrangements, and as I indicated, we have an installed base now on Mac OS X that is close to 16 million users.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. And then second, if I may, on song downloads, you said you had not hit your half a million number yet. Can you give any comments as to whether downloading activity increased on a sequential basis? There seems to be a wide range of possibilities there between decline and a meaningful increase.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Richard, we are very close to the 500 millionth song. I think at this point we are almost at 494 million.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And we are very pleased with our -- our sales. They go up and down a little bit each week, depending on seasonality and new hot releases. Overall, music sales are growing, and I am very happy that our market share has increased to over 80%.  

RICHARD CHU: Thank you. And then I would like to go back to the very first question that was re-asked I think later on, but with respect to the Intel-related guidance. Should I interpret what you are saying as being therefore that you are being preemptively conservative with respect to what could happen and that you are not currently seeing any reason to be concerned. You are simply concerned about the possibility that you may see an impact.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Richard, I think just to make this sort of simple. We feel that we are being prudent. This is our first full quarter after the Intel transition announcement, and we expect to learn more in the quarter.  

RICHARD CHU: Great. Thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Richard, and that concludes our call. A recording of the call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days beginning at 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today, and the number for that replay is 719-457-0820. The confirmation code is 7556415. And a replay of the audio webcast of the call will be available at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today at  www.apple.com/investor .  

And members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. And Joan's at 408-974-4570. And I am at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: And this does conclude our conference call, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we do appreciate your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050727e17d001e3
  


 HD
 Q2  2005 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,006 words
   PD
13 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss second quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead, ma'am.  

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR AND CORP. FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Speaking today is Apple's CFO Peter Oppenheimer and he'll be joined by EVP of Sales and Operations Tim Cook and VP and Corporate Treasurer Gary Wipler for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you will hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, earnings per share, future products, and Apple's retail initiatives. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to pages 45 through 58 of Apple's form 10-K for fiscal year 2004, and to pages 33 through 44 of Apple's 10-K for the first quarter of fiscal 2005.  

Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed will be posted on Apple's website at  www.Apple.com/investor . In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, SVP, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We're pleased to report the highest March quarter of revenue and net income in Apple's history. Revenue of 3.243 billion was up 70% year-over-year, and net income was 290 million, up 530% year-over-year. Generating earnings per diluted share of $0.34. These results were driven by strong sales of MACs and iPods. Operating margin increased to 12.4% from 2.7% in the year ago quarter. The robust operating results were driven by the strong revenue growth which allowed us to better leverage our operating expenses, as well as the higher than expected gross margin of 29.8% that was well above our targeted range of 27 to 28%.  

First let's review our Macintosh business results. Our MAC business generated 62% of total revenue and was up 27% from the year ago quarter driven by strong MAC, peripheral, and software sales. We shipped 1.070 million MAC units during the quarter which is a record number in a March quarter for Apple and our highest level for any quarter in over four years. MAC unit shipment growth was 43% year-over-year, which represents over four times the most recently forecasted market rate of growth for the March quarter, published by IDC. We shipped 608,000 total desk top systems during the quarter, an increase of 55% from the year-ago level. Combined sales of iMac G5, eMac's, and Mac mini's more than doubled to 467,000 units from the year ago quarter and PowerMac shipments totaled 141,000. Total portable shipments were 462,000 units, up 29% from the year-ago quarter. We shipped 251,000 iBooks and 211,000 of the recently refreshed PowerBooks. At the end of the quarter channel inventory of total MAC units was within our targeted range of between four and five weeks.  

Now, let me discuss our music business results. Our music business generated 38% of total Apple revenue and was up 280% compared to the year-ago quarter. We shipped 5.3 million iPods during the quarter, over six times the year ago level. These results were driven by strong customer response to the new iPod shuffle, combined with the refreshed four gigabyte iPod mini starting at $199, and the new six gigabyte iPod mini priced at $249. We also brought the iPod photo within reach of more customers by lowering the price of both models by $150 to now start at $349.  

We do not have data for the month of March yet, but February data ranks us number one in the U.S. flash MP3 player market by a wide margin, with 43% share, as measured by NPD Tech World. We are competing in all segments of the MP3 player market today and we are pleased to offer customers a comprehensive and very competitively priced lineup of iPods starting at $99. The iTunes music store continues to be the leading online music service and operates in 15 countries. Last week we crossed the 350 million songs download milestone and despite the increased competition our share of online music market in the U.S. has remained at or above the 70% level as measured by Nielsen SoundScan.  

The Apple retail stores results were terrific. The retail segment revenue more than doubled from the year ago quarter to 571 million. Segment revenue did not experience the expected seasonal decline and actually increased sequentially. We opened two stores during the quarter, bringing our quarter end total to 103. With an average of 102 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was up 5.6 million -- or was 5.6 million, up more than 2 million, from the 3.5 million in the year-ago quarter, a 60% increase. The retail store segment profit was 42 million, and the associated manufacturing profit was 102 million.  

Traffic through our stores continues to grow. Last quarter, almost 13 million people visited our stores, translating into 9.8 thousand visitors per store per week. This compares to about 5.8 thousand visitors per store per week in the year-ago quarter. We continue to expect to end fiscal 2005 with 125 stores, including 10 outside the United States. We were pleased with the results from our U.S. education channel, which generated the highest Q2 revenue in five years. Overall education revenue increased 25% and CPU units increased 21%. Higher education revenue grew 45% year-over-year, driven by a strong demand for iPods, portables, and iMacs. K-12 revenue grew only 5% and continues to be subject to budget constraints.  

In terms of geographic performance, including sales from our retail stores, revenue in Europe, the Americas, and Japan, was up 64%, 72%, and 72% respectively. We are very pleased with the much improved results from Japan and feel the initiatives we have undertaken are starting to produce positive results. Gross margin was 29.8%, about 260 basis points better than guidance, primarily due to lower component costs, a higher mix of direct sales, a more favorable product mix, the higher revenue which leveraged fixed cost, and product transition costs that were less than planned. Operating expense was 566 million, slightly lower than guidance, primarily due to greater capitalization of TIger development costs. OI&E was 33 million, 3 million higher than guidance due to larger-than-expected cash balances as well as higher-than-expected interest income. We have raised our estimated effective tax rate for the fiscal year to 32% from 31%. The tax rate for the March quarter was booked at 33% in order to true up the tax rate through the first fiscal half of the year. The increase in the tax rate was due to both higher overall earnings as well as a greater mix of income coming from the U.S. where the effective tax rate is higher.  

Cash grew by over 600 million during the quarter, to 7.057 billion, and is up almost 1.6 billion through the first fiscal half. The growth in cash was due to strong earnings, continued great working capital management, and employee stock option exercises. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were 43 million, including 16 million for our retail initiative. Apple's quarterly operating results currently include approximately $10 million of expense primarily related to vesting of restricted shares and restricted share units, that had been previously granted to senior executives.  

Based on the current standard, we expect to adopt FAS 123R in this year's September quarter. Which means that our operating results will also begin to include as expense the theoretical value of employee stock options granted and the theoretical option value of employee stock purchase program shares issued. Because share-based compensation expense does not represent a use of cash, we believe it is helpful to shareholders to provide pro forma information that excludes the impact of this compensation, as well as certain other items from time to time to provide clarity on the Company's core operating results. Accordingly, we have included in our earnings press release this quarter a reconciliation to pro forma results that excludes the compensation expense related to restricted shares, and restricted share units that is already reflected in Apple's GAAP financial results. Once we adopt FAS 123R we also plan to present pro forma results that exclude the compensation expense related to stock options and employee stock purchase plan.  

On another note related to presentation of financial results, Apple's music business has become a very significant portion of our overall business, representing 38% of total revenue in the March quarter. As such, we want to begin to more closely align the reporting we provide for our MAC and music businesses. Therefore, beginning in our June quarter, we will stop reporting our CPU sales by product family and instead we will report CPU unit shipments in revenue in two broad categories, desk tops, and portables. We believe this will provide consistency with the level of detail we provide for our music business, as well as the level of detail provided by our major competitors in the personal computer industry.  

Looking ahead to the June quarter, I would like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, we are targeting revenue of about 3.25 billion, and diluted earnings per share of about $0.28. We expect gross margin to be about 28.5%. We expect OpEx to be about 600 million. We expect OI&E to be about 38 million, and as we previously stated, expect the tax rate to be 32%.  

In summary, we are very pleased with the results of Apple's first fiscal half with revenue growth of 72% and net income up 437%, compared to the first half of 2004. The strategies we put in place several years ago, and the investments we have made in innovative hardware and software products expanded distribution and marketing have come together to generate growth for our Company. We look forward to a great second half of fiscal 2005, starting with the introduction of our next generation operating system, Mac OS X Tiger later this month. With, that I would like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] We will go first to Richard Gardner with Smith Barney.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Okay. Thank you. I was hoping, Peter, you could give us, and Tim, some sense of what the supply/demand balance looks like on iPod at this point across all the major geographic regions and whether you're comfortable with the channel inventories on that product or whether we should expect that you will continue to fill up the channel of with product to get you to the desired four to five week level as we head into the June quarter? And then I have a follow-up as well.  

TIM COOK, EVP, WORLDWIDE SALES AND OPERATIONS, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Hi, Rich. It is Tim. With the March shipments that we made of iPod, we believe that we were at or near a supply/demand balance on all iPod families by the end of the quarter. In terms of channel inventory, for iPod, because of the number of distribution spots that we have, we define normal levels as four to six weeks, and we were at normal levels exiting the quarter.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And then on the gross margin front, Peter, you said last quarter that 28.5 was -- I think you characterized it as unhealthy. You blew past the guidance this quarter. And now, you're talking about 28.5 for June. I'm assuming that that's because you're above 28 target because of Tiger but can you talk about whether we should assume that 28, 29 is kind of the new baseline level? And if not, when we should expect it to get back down to the 26 to 28 range that you've talked about previously?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Let me first start off by discussing a little bit the gross margin in the March quarter, and why it guided down in the June quarter. Our March quarter gross margin exceeded our guidance by about 260 basis points due to a number of factors. First, the commodity environment was better than we had expected. Second, we had a higher mix of direct sales than we had planned. And we also had a better mix of products, particularly in PowerBooks and accessories. And we executed our transitions with less price protection, particularly in iPod than we had planned. And as I discussed last quarter, with the higher revenue, we were able to leverage our fixed production costs.  

As I look to the June quarter, I see gross margin at about 28.5%. And I see that there are four reasons why it is going to come down, partially offset by better software sales. Let me first go through the four. The June quarter begins our education selling season, particularly with K-12, we will sell more lower ASP end margin iBooks and iMacs and we also expect to see a reduction in consumer sales through the channel of higher ASP products. Third, the full quarter impact of the iPod pricing reductions that we took in late February, and also a different pricing environment, including the full quarter impact of the PowerBook and display prices we reduced last quarter. Partially offsetting these factors, I expect to see increases in the OS as a result of Mac OS X Tiger, we're very excited about Tiger which will ship at the end of April. But iLife and iWork which were very successful this quarter will enter their second quarter and I would expect them to be down sequentially.  

In terms of our gross margin target, let me just anticipate a question from you or somebody else and sort of talk a little bit about the business model. We have previously discussed a financial success model on a target basis which had operating margin at 7%, with revenue above 11%. The Company now for the last couple of quarters has been growing at about 70%, and our gross margins have been above our targeted 27 to 28% which has put the operating margin well above 7%. We will complete our fiscal '06 planning process at the end of the summer and I will likely update our target model at that time. However, and while I'm not providing guidance beyond the June quarter, I don't think that the revenue will continue to grow at these levels forever. And I would hope that we could grow our revenues at 15% or better. The 30 -- approximate 30% in gross margin that we attained in the March quarter is above our historical trends. It is above the target that I have provided. And I don't believe that we could sustain it. And I would target gross margin to be 27 to 28% in the future, and I believe that the Opex will grow at 50 to 60% of the revenue growth rate.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Rob Semple with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

ROB SEMPLE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thanks. Just a question on the revenue guidance. The last few year, you've been up kind of 5 to 6% sequentially. Any thoughts on why we're flat? Is it just a higher mix of iPod now? Or just can you elaborate there?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, the guidance that I've provided at 3.25 billion is up 61% year-over-year, and really in line with historical sequential trends of flat to up slightly. As I indicated a moment ago, the June quarter begins the education selling season, particularly in K-12 where we will sell more lower ASP iMacs and iBooks and we typically see a reduction in our consumer sales through the channel. Also impacting other revenue will be the full quarter impact of the price reductions that we took last quarter. But I see the software sales are primarily from Mac OS X Tiger offsetting the ASP declines and have forecasted revenues basically flat sequentially.  

ROB SEMPLE: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Ben Reitzes with UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Good afternoon. Hey, guys, can you talk about whether there could have been pent-up demand though for MACs into this calendar second quarter or fiscal third, waiting for Tiger, and is there any way to quantify that? Did you get any feedback that your MAC number, you know, while at 1.07 million could have been understated? And then I got a follow-up.  

TIM COOK: This is Tim. It is very difficult to answer that question. I would tell you that the -- on all major models, we feel like we were at a -- at or near our supply/demand balance in the MAC family as well. What customers are thinking about Tiger, I think that the reception of the last 24 hours has been really good, but whether or not that delayed any CPU purchases is really impossible to tell.  

BEN REITZES: Well is that usually the case, Tim, though? What did you see over the last two major upgrades on OS X? Did you see a pause in the quarter before and then a big uptick?  

TIM COOK: It is very difficult to tell whether customers do that or not. We have announced, as you know, for some time, that we would be shipping in the first half of this year, and so I think our install base that follows us closely knew that as we didn't ship in the first three months, that we would ship in the April, May, or June time frame.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. And Tim, there's been some well-documented PowerBook issues with regard to the track pads and, you know, the lead times on your website went up quite a bit, or at least to 5 to 7 days, I saw, and maybe longer. Could you just talk about that? I mean you had a pretty good PowerBook number despite that, better than I had expected. What is going on? Is it completely resolved? And are we smooth sailing from here?  

TIM COOK: The lead times that you're talking about were -- actually went up because for a short period of time supply was less than demand. And we did have an excellent PowerBook quarter and we're very pleased with the results that we have. We had some isolated issues early on, relative to the track pad, and I think we've now resolved those. If anybody, if any customer has an issue, they should call Apple care and we would be glad to take care of them.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Bill Shope with J.P. Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Okay, great. Thanks. Tim, could you give us just an outlook on where you see component pricing overall in the current quarter? And then could you give us -- could you give us an outlook on overall the new MAC users within the retail segment for the quarter? Is it still in the low 40% range?  

TIM COOK: Okay. On the component pricing, let me first comment on Q2, the quarter that we just finished. Prices of most key components trended downward more than we had anticipated, and as Peter alluded to earlier, that helped us achieve a higher gross margin than we had guided to. I would characterize last quarter as a very favorable buying environment in most component markets. As we go into Q3, we believe that the current favorable environment will continue. However, I do not expect to see the kinds of declines that we saw in Q2. And I think Peter can comment on your retail question.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will take the retail question. The -- new to MAC sales in the retail stores, continue in the low to mid 40% range. And sales were quite strong in our retail for computers. We were 144,000 units this past quarter, which was up 106% year-over-year.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. One more question. Could you give us the overall iPod gross margin?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, for competitive reasons, I'm not going to give any results by product or geography, but the overall line margin was just a little above 20% in the quarter.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Joel Wagonfeld with First Albany Capital.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY CAPITAL: Thanks. Sorry if I missed this. Did you give the number, the percentage that was direct, I think last quarter, it was 45% and you mentioned that that was one of the things that was benefiting your gross margin this quarter, was wondering if you had a comparable number this quarter, and where you expect that could go over the next say two to three quarters?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The direct percent which we define as sales through our retail stores, online directly to customers, iTunes music, and U.S. education, was 48%, in the March quarter and that compares to 44% in the year-ago quarter. And I will report to you each quarter what it was, but don't provide a forecast.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Andrew Neff with Bear Stearns.  

ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Sure, two things if I could. One, can you give us any sort of indication of the breakout or units whether if's shuffle or the mini. And I guess a related question to that, the ASP for the iMac was down sequentially, I guess it was 1360 to 1034, is that a reflection of a mix shift?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Andy, the -- your second question on iMac, yes, the ASP reduction from 1360 to 1034 on a sequential basis reflected our shipping the Mac mini in the March quarter which we did not have in the December quarter. And I'm sorry, your first question was breaking out certain iPods, we're not going to do that for competitive reasons. I'm sorry.  

ANDREW NEFF: What about in terms of the mini, can you give us a sense -- I mean we can probably back into it but can you give us a sense of how the mini did compared to what you thought or what sort of -- who is buying the mini.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The Mac mini?  

ANDREW NEFF: Yes.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We were very pleased with customer response and sales, and anecdotally, we think that existing MAC customers and Windows customers are buying the Mac mini.  

ANDREW NEFF: Okay. But you can't give us any break down on that either in terms of the Mac mini?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. Since we're going to go to a more summarized level of reporting for MACs next quarter, we're not going to break out the eMac and flat panel and Mac mini.  

ANDREW NEFF: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Thank you. Actually, I got dropped from the call for a while there so I wonder if you can repeat what you're saying about the operating margin, long term target. That's about where I got dropped off. And then actually to follow-up on Andy Neff's question there, could you maybe give us what you expect for ASP trends on the iPod as a bucket? It was down 30% this quarter. I imagine due to the shuffle launch but what should we expect for that kind of going forward?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry, I'm not going to give you a forecast of product line for next quarter or beyond. In terms of the operating margin, just to summarize, I had -- we previously discussed a success model that would have operating margin about 7% with 11 billion in revenue. I do not see our revenues growing at the levels that they have been growing in the future and would hope that we could grow revenue at 15% or better. I would target gross margins at 27 to 28%, and the OpEx to grow at 50 to 60% of the revenue growth rate. I added some commentary I think while you dropped off and would suggest you may want to review that after the call.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. And one final question, on the -- are you going to break out the iTunes piece of the music business now that you're going to this new break out or are you guys just going to give like a total music --?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, we're going to report total music sales as we -- total music product sales as we have been doing.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest Securities.  

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST SECURITIES: Yes, thanks. Two questions for you here. Did you see any additional air freight expenses this quarter? Or do you see any for the upcoming quarter? Are there any products that you're having trouble or components you're having trouble getting availability on?  

TIM COOK: Bill, this is Tim. The air freight we did experience some air freight, but we have air freight as a standard part of our logistics model on some products and I would not classify the quarter as an abnormal rate and I would say the same thing about the quarter that we're entering into. Any air freight that we do have has obviously been factored in the guidance that Peter went through earlier.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And then a follow-up on the product side. Last quarter, you had said that putting a G5 in a PowerBook frame would be a significant technical challenge. Any update on your views on putting a G5 in a PowerBook that may have changed since the last call in January?  

TIM COOK: Bill, I still think it is the mother of all thermal challenges.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay.  

TIM COOK: I haven't changed my view on that.  

BILL FEARNLEY: All right. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to David Bailey with Goldman Sachs.  

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, just a quick follow-up and a quick question. On the follow-up, could you give us the iPod channel inventory at the beginning of the quarter? I think you said it is now at around four to six weeks .  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't -- I'm sorry, I don't recall, David, what we had said on the January call.  

DAVID BAILEY: Okay. Maybe we can do that as a follow-up. The other question was, obviously this is a relatively small quarter for K-12, June is a much bigger quarter, can you give us some idea of what you think the growth rate might pick up to from the 5% this quarter?  

TIM COOK: It is difficult to say that, David. The number of states that are having budget problems are still large. Approximately half of the states that we see are having some kind of issues and half the states are beginning to grow. California in particular has weighed down our results by 6 to 7 points. And so, you know, as Peter said that for the last quarter, we experienced a 5% kind of revenue growth, and we've factored our experience in that market into our guidance. The good news here is that higher ed continues to be extremely good for us, with a very large revenue growth for several quarters in a row now. And so that has counter-balanced the K-12 issue, where the total education sector grew 25% for us last quarter, which we're very happy with.  

DAVID BAILEY: Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great. Thank you very much. Two quick questions. First one, I think Peter, last call, you talked about the fact that during the last iMac product cycle you saw units fall about 21 or so percent in the second quarter. And then you also talked about the consumer being down in the mid double digits during the March quarter, so you really talked to the seasonality and yet if we look at the results, you saw up sequential units for iMac this quarter, and consumer overall is roughly flat. And I'm wondering, if you think about that differential, between what you've seen historically and what you've posted today, is it directly and solely tied to the so-called halo effect or how you're thinking about that given, you know, the quarter really bucked the trend line units? And then I have a quick follow-up.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think the iPod sales that we've had to Windows users played a very strong role in our growth rate year-over-year. Again we were up 43%. And I was pleased with our sales across all of our product lines. And all of our geographies. And I think it is not only what we're seeing from iPod, but we also have a very strong product lineup today, and a great OS and iLife suite of applications that go along with it. So I think it is really all those factors.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And a quick follow-up on the accessories, it continues to do better than we were modeling and expecting. Just any additional color in terms of what you're seeing? And then also as you try to capture more of the licensing IP, and you know, dollars there, can you just talk to how we should be thinking about that business on a go forward basis?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: In terms of accessories, this is one area where the direct business certainly helps us, but we've got a great line of displays, in airport and other third party product that we are selling through our stores and online, and it is a focus area for the Company. And I'm not sure I understand your licensing question.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: We've seen some, you know, -- clearly you're starting to get more aggressive at attempting to capture some of the royalties from companies that are leveraging into the iPod franchise and capture some licensing fees, and I was just wondering if you had an update in terms of where that stood.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We have recently come out with the made for iPod logo program, as a result of having over 500 accessories that you can buy for your iPod and growing. This is to help customers determine which iPod accessories will work seamlessly with our iPod and developers to get technical support and specific information very quickly to get products to market faster. The terms of this program are confidential and I can't go into that.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Rebecca. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Steve Milunovich with Merrill Lynch.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Two questions. First of all on the expense side, Peter, you've talked about getting to that 50 to 60% growth of revenue rate. I think two quarters ago was 38%. This quarter actually dipped to 30. Do you have any time frame? And how are we going to get there? For example you mentioned capitalization of some of the development costs. Should we expect to see a fairly significant sequential increase in R&D?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, Steve, the OpEx is going to trend up this quarter, as I had said in our guidance, I expect it to be about 600 million, which would be up about $35 million sequentially and a part of that sequential increase, a little less than half related to the capitalization of Tiger. With the guidance that I've provided for Q3, our relationship would be -- in terms of expense growth to revenue growth, would be a 41%, so still below the 50 to 60%, but beginning to approach it. And the revenue guidance of 61%, and while I've said that I believe we can grow our Company at attractive levels, and would hope to see it grow at 15% or better, I don't see the recent growth rates continuing forever, and I do see the OpEx growth rates approaching 50 to 60% of revenue.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. And Tim, Jobs, referred to incredible new products pipeline. Obviously, you're not going to preannounce products, but can you give us some sense that you guys have something that could be of the magnitude of an iPod or a couple of products together that we will see in the not too distant future here? Obviously you're developing a real consumer franchise here and I'm sure you've got the pedal to the metal to take advantage of that. Maybe you can just give us your strategic thoughts.  

TIM COOK: If I gave you any sense of that, I wouldn't be sitting here on next quarter's call. We just don't comment on that.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: But even from a big picture standpoint, do you guys see more opportunities to leverage this? You're not out of ideas in other words.  

TIM COOK: I don't think Apple could ever be out of ideas.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Fair enough.  

TIM COOK: It is embedded in our DNA.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. That's good to hear.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Mark McKeferny with Twin Peaks Capital.  

MARK MCKEFERNY (ph), ANALYST, TWIN PEAKS CAPITAL: Thank you, I'm sorry my question has been asked and answered. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will move to Shaw Wu with American Technology Research.  

SHAW WU, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH: The question has been answered. Sorry.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We will go to Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Hi, good afternoon. Can you give us an idea on, in terms of Mac mini and Best Buy, when you did channel sell for that, will be that be in fiscal second or fiscal third quarter? And can we talk a little bit about what is going on in PowerMac? Obviously we're expecting a refresh coming, it has been quite a while and you had strong PowerBook sales, but how should we think about that line item going forward, especially given that you're not going to be breaking it out any more?  

TIM COOK: On Best Buy, we did ship some units last quarter and they began to sell units at the beginning of April and did their launch, which is an ad in their circular just this past weekend and so we are now selling the Mac mini in all of the Best Buy stores. We are continuing to look at our channel strategy and -- to the degree that we can find channels that we believe give us incremental customers with a high quality buying experience, we would make other moves. But I've got nothing further to announce today. On the PowerMac, the PowerMac is largely driven by our pro business, as is part of the PowerBooks, we continue to see desk top -- a desk top migration in that environment to mobile. However, the PowerMac continues to be a very important part of our lineup for many of our audio, video, and DNP customers and obviously, we will continue to announce great things associated with the PowerMac.  

SHANNON CROSS: Any idea what your market share has been in PowerMac -- or you know, in the high end sales over the last couple of quarters?  

TIM COOK: There is not a good third party source of any of those professional markets. We look at intention to buy surveys and we look at our own results, sequentially and year-over-year, and we are very happy with the progress we've made in audio, the momentum there has been very good, video goes through a slow down in the first calendar quarter of each year prior to NAV, which just begins next week, and we saw some of that last quarter, although less than we had anticipated. And then the DNP market remains what I would characterize as a kind of very slow kind of market, but a very important one to us.  

SHANNON CROSS: And then just one final quick question, the number of channels that HP is now selling its iPods in and how is that relationship given the management change at HP?  

TIM COOK: HP iPods made up less than 3% of the total iPod shipments for last quarter. They are continuing to distribute in the U.S. and have announced in the last day, just yesterday, that they are now expanding that lineup, beyond the 20 gig, which they have been selling, to include the 30 and 60 gig models of the iPod, and so we continue to be very happy to partner with them on this product.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.  

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Hey, good afternoon, everybody. Could -- you talked a little bit about the actual CPU number was so strong, and just over a million units, can you talk a little bit about the strength in the halo or just maybe some -- a little bit of peripheral data around that? I know last quarter you had talked about some of that.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Gene, I think the bottom line measure of any positive impact that we're seeing from iPod Windows customers on the MAC is really most clearly seen in our CPU shipments and again, we were up 43% year-over-year. We grew at four times the IDC's most recent published rate of market growth for the quarter. Two other things that we watch in addition to this are our sales through our retail stores. Our CPU shipments through the retail stores were 144,000 in the second quarter. It was up 106%. And in the low to mid 40% range are the people that bought those MACs, had never owned a MAC before. So that certainly is some level of evidence for us. And also the --.  

GENE MUNSTER: What percentage was that again that had never owned a MAC before?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The low to mid 40% range. And the higher education results that Tim spoke about, we certainly think that a number of kids that had a great experience with an iPod opted to take an iBook or a PowerBook off to school with them.  

GENE MUNSTER: And just in terms if you look at the -- you guys did a survey I guess starting last quarter about if you are a halo person we kind of want to hear your story. Any kind of stories you can share with us regarding that survey that you guys did internally?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't have anything to share today.  

GENE MUNSTER: In terms of iTunes, operating margin on iTunes were just generic, slightly profitable, not profitable?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The iTunes music store operated at a little above break even in the quarter.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. And last time, last quarter, I think you gave overall kind of market share expectations I think you talked about 70% of overall market share and 90% of hard disk drivers it seems like you've given out a little less detail this time. Any thoughts in terms of what market share you would have on the hard disk side?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, let me tell you what we have from NPD, which is as of February. Our share of hard drive based MP3 players was about 90%, and we had reached 43% of the flash base, and we're at about 70% overall market share for February. And that was up from where we were in the December quarter.  

GENE MUNSTER: So you went from 0 to 43% of flash base?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, in the month of February. And we do not yet have the March results.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. So let me just get that straight. In basically a month of the shuffle being available, it got 43% market share?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: As reported by NPD, yes, that is accurate.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Shawn Slayton with SG Cowen.  

SHAWN SLAYTON, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Hi, guys. As a follow-up to that on the portable compressed audio side, maybe regarding your own market research, do you detect any meaningful trend as to flash player sales infringing on sales of your hard drive players? And as a follow-up can you share with us your expectations for nearer term seasonal trends for portable players? Thanks.  

TIM COOK: On your cannibalization question, we had -- we announced a number of things in the quarter with iPod. We announced the shuffle, in January, we started shipping large volumes of it, in February, we changed the entry price of our iPod mini to 199 in late February. And in addition to that, we lowered the price of the two photo iPods all the way down to 349 for our starting price. And so there were lots of things happening. And given that, it is very difficult to answer a question about cannibalization. What we are certain about is that this expanded the total opportunity for us, and I think you heard in the last question that in a month that we were still ramping production, we were able to achieve a 43% market share number in the U.S. according to NPD, and so we absolutely believe that we are expanding our universe and obviously the total number of iPods that the Company shift increased from a holiday quarter to the first quarter, which I think it is just kind of unheard of in consumer electronics. And so we're thrilled with the results. It is clear they're incremental but to what level of cannibalization it is, it is an impossible question to answer.  

SHAWN SLAYTON: Okay. And then your expectations for nearer term seasonal trends for your portable audio players?  

TIM COOK: We just give guidance of a total revenue, and EPS level and Peter covered those earlier in his comments. We do not project at the product level.  

SHAWN SLAYTON: Okay. Thanks much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shawn. Could we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Keith Bachman with Banc of America Securities.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, two questions, if I could. Number one, are there still geographies that you have opportunities to penetrate on the iPod side of the family, please?  

TIM COOK: We have various levels of market share in different geographies and the U.S. and the U.K., and Australia tend to be among the highest, and so there's clearly more -- a lot more opportunity in the MP3 space and other geographies, and we're obviously working to grow that business in those geographies.  

KEITH BACHMAN: So in other words if I think about your business in the next couple of quarters, it would be reasonable to assume that incremental share gains in the category, higher opportunity for those in foreign geographies? Is that a fair characterization even in the absence of growth or no growth in the market?  

TIM COOK: Well, I -- clearly, there is more head room in the share outside of those three markets that I talked about. There is more head room in Germany, in France, in China, in Japan, and you know, several different places. But I wouldn't assume that the market wouldn't grow.  

KEITH BACHMAN: No, no, I wasn't trying to say that. Let me try my question also in a different vector. Is -- do you see the opportunity to increase your channel capabilities in the nonU.S., nonU.K., nonAustralia geographies?  

TIM COOK: We're continuing to expand our channel, yes, in all geographies, including the United States.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay.  

TIM COOK: We have now -- we now have store front locations up to 21,000 around the world. That's up from 3 just a few years ago when we began the iPod business.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Peter let me just switch subjects to the second one. You mentioned the capitalization of software, I think it was roughly 17 million if I heard you right that was pushed from this quarter to next quarter. Why was that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We capitalize customers -- or software developer customers in accordance with FAS 86 so when we demonstrate technological feasibility we begin capitalization through Golden Master. And Tiger went to Golden Master very recently. So that means that we will stop capitalizing the development of it. And that means that we will see a sequential increase in OpEx in the June quarter as a result. And in the March quarter. And actually in the December quarter as well. We capitalized about $15 million in each quarter of Tiger development.  

KEITH BACHMAN: But the fact that you pushed some OpEx from March to June, if I heard you right, means you shipped it a little later than you thought?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, not later. I think it was just conservative in the amount that I had built into the forecast.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Thank you.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't want to infer that Tiger was late. In fact we were well ahead of our commitment in the first half of calendar '05.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Harry Blount with Lehman Brothers.  

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, guys. A couple of questions if I might. First of all, you had mentioned in the commentary and your results show that Japan increased fairly significantly sequentially. Could you give us a little more color as to some of the actions you did take there, and some idea as to what actions are going to sustain the momentum?  

TIM COOK: In Japan has really taken to the iPod. The iPod has done extremely well there. Also, we have changed our channel fairly significantly. We've opened more of our own retail stores. And in addition, we've made certain changes in the -- in our indirect channel and the sum of both of those have really brought Japan to a new level. I do think that the economy in Japan is still weak and I think that we have much more to do but to have a 72% growth year-over-year is a really good milestone for us.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Great. Peter, the next question is for you, actually. On the iPods I just want to circle back, I think you said that your inventory is roughly four to six weeks, and I know since you guys are basically out of stock in many SKUs at the end of the December quarter, am I thinking about it right at a high level to say if you have a 13-week quarter and you had 4 to 6 weeks at channel fill, we take the roughly 5.3 million iPods and divide it more by a 16 to 18-week quarter to get in effect your weekly true of sell-out demand here?  

TIM COOK: We have to consider that the shuffle began ramping in January and hit a kind of full throttle production in the second half of February. And so the shift -- the linearity of shipments was not -- it wasn't a perfect linearity through the quarter when you make that assessment. But if -- if you're trying to get to was there a channel fill. The answer is yes. Obviously, we had zero shuffles in the channel at the end of December. And we left with a reasonable level of inventory at the end of our -- at the end of last quarter.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Yes, that's what I'm trying to get at, is of the 5.3, is it just back of the envelope, it looks like it is 1 to 1.5 million might have been channel fill.  

TIM COOK: I don't want to get to an exact number.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Right, yes, that -- we're not going to give you an exact number, but that is high, and don't forget that we have a direct business as well, and so you've got -- when you look at your implied weekly sell-through, don't forget to factor that in.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Harry. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Stirling Levy with Arkoney.  

STIRLING LEVY, ANALYST, ARKONEY (PH): The question has been answered. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Great. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go to Richard Chu with SG Cowen.  

RICHARD CHU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Yes, thank you. Peter, you said earlier, I believe, that gross margins on iPods were running just a little bit over 20%. Given that you didn't have a relatively dramatic shift, at least a contribution, substantial contribution from shuffle in the quarter, what can we infer in terms of margin dynamics within iPod? Were there improvements outside of shuffle? Would shuffle have nondilutive impact on margins et cetera? Can you comment on that generally?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I can't because for competitive reasons, our competitors would love to know what our margins and/or our sales were by individual iPods.  

RICHARD CHU: Well --.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The dynamics --.  

RICHARD CHU: The component cost comment that you made generally, does that apply to a beneficial impact on iPod margins as well?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Of course. But at the end of February, we also are reduced pricing on the iPod mini and on the iPod photo as well.  

RICHARD CHU: And if I can follow up on the -- the mini numbers are incorporated in iMac. Is there -- is there any way you can give us a sense of the buy rate on mini from the nonMacintosh community as you did comment in general for retail in general?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Richard, I'm sorry, I don't have that data. We survey retail MAC buyers, and that's how I provide you the data that I do on our retail sales. Anecdotally, I'm hearing from our retail stores, and we're hearing from our channels, that our Mac mini sales are coming from current MAC customers and Windows customers.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. And then I thought -- the question may have been asked earlier but I wonder whether you can give it a shot again. Guidance on Q3 sequentially lower, does that -- does that assume a sequential decline in the -- in iPods?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Are you referring to revenue or gross margin?  

RICHARD CHU: No, revenues.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we don't give individual product forecasts. I can't answer that question.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. Thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Brett Barecat with Trend Blank Capital.  

BRETT BARECAT (ph), ANALYST, TREND BLANK CAPITAL: Thanks, I just wanted to ask about your attentions with cash. Cash is now north of $8 a share, and as we look out over the next 12 months, it will be probably closer to $10 a share or 25% of the Company's market value. And just interested what you're building so much cash for and do you intend to return it to shareholders and if so how you plan on doing that.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. I cannot address your future cash projection question. We will see how the cash continues to build over time. From time to time our board does review our cash position and share buyback, but we have to date maintained our cash balances for flexibility to invest in the business, and I don't have a change in that position to share with you today. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Brett. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Todd Smith with Wisconsin Investment Board.  

TODD SMITH, ANALYST, WISCONSIN INVESTMENT BOARD: A question on share count. What caused the share count to go up so dramatically from a year ago?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: From a year ago, it's actually the stock option exercises accounted for most of the increase in our shares, our diluted shares outstanding.  

TODD SMITH: Okay. Mostly stock option exercise. And then on the second question, on CPUs in Europe, first quarter CPUs, I guess were quite strong, they appear to be down while you just talked about Japan, anything going on in Europe that we need to know about?  

TIM COOK: The first quarter in Europe, that's the December quarter, is always an extremely strong period of time in Europe disproportionate to other regions and so it is natural that you have a reduction coming out of Q1. Also, we took down our channel inventory slightly in Europe, and so the combination of those two things, I would call your attention to the revenue performance there is up 64% year-over-year, when you combine it with the retail segment, which is, you know, we're very happy with our progress there.  

TODD SMITH: Okay. Thank you for that. And let me just ask one quick last question on share count. Does Apple have the share buyback program?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We do have a $500 million program that has been authorized by the board. There is is a little bit under 300 million remaining that we have not been active in the program for several years.  

TODD SMITH: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Todd. We have time for one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Today's final question comes from Ben Reitzes with UBS.  

BEN REITZES: Well, I guess I will end on free cash flow. What did you say again Peter, was the free cash flow in the quarter, if we're taking out exercise of options, and then if you could also explain why, with the sales you had, the receivables are pretty flat quarter to quarter, along with inventories, with the product build you've had?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Let me address your second question first. The receivables were reasonably flat. Our DSO was at 25 days. That's really being driven by our strong direct sales. And our global collections team has just continued to do a fabulous job working with customers keeping our receivable balances current. And you're right, our inventory remains relatively flat on a sequential basis. And most of the inventory you see on the balance sheet is in the stores. In my prepared remarks, I had commented that cash was up about $600 million. In the quarter. And that came from our strong earnings, working capital management, and employee stock option exercises.  

BEN REITZES: Do you have the quantified -- should I just do the math on the employee stock options with -- or do you have that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gary, what would that --  

GARY WIPLER, VP, CORP. TREASURER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Yes, actually, the proceeds from stock option exercises totaled $287 million.  

BEN REITZES: Thanks a lot.  

GARY WIPLER: That's including the tax benefit associated with those stock option exercises.  

BEN REITZES: Thank you.  

GARY WIPLER: Okay.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Ben. And thank you, everyone for joining us today. A recording of today's call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days beginning at 5:00 p.m. pacific time today and the number for the replay is 719-457-0820. And the confirmation code is 7478762. A replay of the audio Webcast of this call will also be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. pacific time today, at  www.Apple.com/investor . And will remain available for approximately 12 months. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional question, Joan is at 408-974-4570. And I am at 408-974-5420. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our conference call today. We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your phone line at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050427e14d0015v
  


 HD
 Q1  2005 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,274 words
   PD
12 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2005 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss first quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director, Investor Relations, and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead, ma'am.  

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he will be joined by EVP of Worldwide Sales and Operations, Tim Cook, and VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Wipfler for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hearing during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, earnings per share, and Apple's retail initiative. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast and for more information please refer to pages 45 through 58 of Apple's Form 10-K for fiscal year 2004. Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed will be posted on Apple's website at  www.apple.com/investor . In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, SVP, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are pleased to report the highest quarterly revenue and net income in Apple's history. Revenue of 3.49 billion was up 74% year-over-year and net income was 295 million or 70 cents per diluted share. These results were driven by very strong CPU sales and record demand for iPods. Operating margin increased to 11.5% from 3.7% in the year-ago quarter. The robust operating results were driven by very strong revenue growth which allowed us to better leverage our operating expenses, as well as gross margin of 28.5%, which was above our targeted range.  

First, I'd like to talk about our Mac-based results. We shipped 1,046,000 Macintosh units during the quarter, which is the highest number of quarterly shipments in over 4 years. Mac-unit shipments increased 26% over the year-ago quarter representing two times the most recently forecasted market rate of growth published by IDC. Led by strong sales of the popular iMac G5, we shipped 623,000 desktop systems during the quarter, an increase of 44% from the year-ago level. iMac family sales rebounded to 456,000 units, consisting of 337,000 iMac G5s and 119,000 eMacs. Power Mac shipments totaled 167,000 units. Total portable shipments were 423,000 units, up 7% from the year-ago quarter. We shipped 271,000 iBook units representing a new quarterly record in addition to 152,000 PowerBook units. At the end of the quarter channel inventory of total Mac units was within our targeted range of between 4 and 5 weeks. Mac-based revenue was up 23% year-over-year. In addition to strong CPU sales Mac-based revenue was augmented by strong demand for Apple-branded and third-party peripheral sales which were up 28%.  

Now, let me discuss our music-based revenue which grew 358% compared to the year-ago quarter. We had an unprecedented quarter for iPods shipping 4,580,000 units exceeding the total number of iPods shipped in all of fiscal 2004. These record-setting results were attributable to several factors, including the introduction of the iPod photo and U2 Special Edition iPod, great marketing, strong holiday demand, and better availability of critical components. The iTunes Music Store continues to be the leading online music service. During the quarter we opened our store in Canada and we now serve iTunes Music Store customers in 15 countries in North America and Western Europe. Yesterday Steve Jobs announced that the iTunes Music Store customers have downloaded 230 million songs. We are very pleased with the momentum and popularity of the iTunes Music Store and remain focused on innovating the customer experience for discovering, acquiring, and managing music.  

The Apple retail stores had a great quarter. Retail segment revenue was 561 million, which has more than doubled the revenue achieved in the year-ago quarter. With an average of 95 stores opened during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was 5.9 million, up from 4.0 million in the year-ago quarter; a 48% increase. The retail store segment profit was 45 million or 8% of retail revenue. In addition, there was 99 million in manufacturing profit associated with the retail segment revenue. Holiday traffic was very strong during the quarter with 10.7 million people visiting our stores, translating into 8.7 thousand visitors per store, per week. This compares to about 6,000 visitors per store, per week in the year-ago quarter. We opened 15 stores during the quarter bringing the quarter-end total to 101. The new mini store format exceeded expectations, as did our first store in Europe on Regent Street in London, which had 450,000 visitors in its first 7 weeks. We will continue to open new stores and expect to end fiscal 2005 with 125 stores, including 10 outside the United States. We plan to open our first store in Canada, and additional stores in the United States, United Kingdom, and Japan.  

Results from our U.S. education channel were very positive. Overall, CPU units grew 11% while revenue grew 20% year-over-year resulting in our highest Q1 revenue from education in 7 years. K-to-12 revenue was up 15%, while higher education revenue grew 25% year-over-year. Results benefited in part from strong demand from the new G5 and iBooks, and we were also pleased that the number of new one-to-one customer deployments doubled year-over-year. In terms of geographic performance revenue in Europe was up 63% year-over-year and up 66%, if the results from the London retail store are included. Revenue in the Americas segment was up 77%. Combining the Americas segment results with U.S. sales from the retail segment yields a year-over-year increase of 81%. Revenue in the Japan segment was up 18% year-over-year. Combining the Japan segment results with sales from our 2 Japan-based retail stores yields a 26% year-over-year increase.  

Gross margin was 28.5%, which exceeded our guidance due primarily to a more favorable commodity environment; higher revenue, which leveraged fixed costs; and a more favorable mix of higher margin products. Operating expense was 593 million, higher than expected primarily due to variable selling expenses associated with the higher-than-expected revenue. OI&E was 26 million, 4 million higher than guidance due to the larger-than-expected cash balances, as well as higher-than-expected interest income. The tax rate for the quarter was 31%, 3 points higher than our guidance of 28%. The increase in the tax rate was due to both higher overall earnings, as well as a greater mix of income coming from the U.S. where the effective tax rate is higher. In terms of the balance sheet cash was 6.448 billion, up 984 million sequentially. The cash growth reflects continued strong asset management and contributions from operating income, as well as proceeds from employee stock option exercises, which were approximately 235 million, excluding related tax benefits in the quarter. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were 58 million, including 33 million from our retail initiatives.  

Looking ahead to the March quarter I'd like to review the outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter we are targeting revenue of about 2.9 billion and diluted earnings per share of about 40 cents. We expect gross margin to be about 27.25%. We expect OpEx to be about 570 million. We expect OI&E to be about 30 million and we expect the tax rate to be 31%. In conclusion, fiscal year 2005 is off to a great start and with the addition of the iPod shuffle, Mac mini, and iLife '05 announced yesterday we hope that even more people will have an opportunity to experience Mac and iPod products in the coming year. With that I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]. We'll take our first question from Steven Milunovich with Merrill Lynch.  

STEVEN MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: First of all could you talk about whether you have any significant backlog in any of your products? Also, could you talk a bit about the gross margin and the upside surprise, particularly as it related to your comment about mix, which products were heavier and contributed to it? And conversely, why you think the gross margin is going to come down sequentially in the next quarter? And finally, I know you don't want to give us numbers in terms of projections on these new products, but how significant do you think they're likely to be? And do you guys have any confidence in your own ability to predict, how the shuffle product does and how the Mac mini does?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Steve, I will take most of your questions and then ask Tim to comment on backlog and he can add some comments to mini and shuffle. So let me first start with gross margin. The gross margins in the quarter were above our guidance about 125 basis points, and as I said in my prepared remarks really related to 3 factors. First being, we had a better commodity environment, and second, we had higher revenues than we had guided to which really allowed us to leverage the fixed costs that we had in the -- that we had in our production areas. And in terms of mix we did see a better mix basically, for example, in the iMac line we saw people buy up that line, so we sold up a little bit more than we would have thought. We saw we had a better mix of Power Mac as well, and the direct sales were a bit higher than we had forecasted. As I look forward, I would see gross margin coming in at about 27.25%, which is within our targeted range. And despite having a higher stock-war sales in the quarter, I think 3 things will bring us back to the levels that I talked about in that range. The first of December quarter, as I said, benefited from very high revenue which provided strong leverage to our production costs. We'll have second, you know, a different pricing environment. You may have noticed that last week we lowered pricing on our display line and some international pricing around the world. And then the third point is that the iPod shuffle and Mac mini have lower margins than our corporate average. The Mac mini its margins are reasonably equivalent to what we're seeing on the eMac, and you have not asked, but I think somebody will, so I'll just answer this now. The iPod margins in the December quarter were very close to our 20% that we talked about, and I'm not going to talk about the -- what I think the hard drive margins will be in the March quarter. I'll talk to you about that in April. But the iPod shuffle margins are below 20%. Tim?  

TIM COOK, EVP, WORLDWIDE SALES & OPERATIONS, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Yes, Steve, hi, it's Tim. On the backlog question, we ended the quarter with backlog principally in 2 areas. One was as we expected, we were able to achieve a supply demand balance on all models of G5, that's Power Mac and iMac, with the exception of the Power Mac 2.5GHz SKU, and so we did end it with backlog there. Secondly, we ended with backlog on iPod exiting the holiday season. Relative to your question on shuffle and Mac mini, we just announced these yesterday, as you know. We're very pleased with the reception that we received yesterday and that we're getting today, but frankly it's too early to gauge the demand on these. We obviously have an internal forecast on both and had 1 supply up to those forecasts.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Harry Blount, Lehman Brothers.  

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Just as it relates to the March quarter as well, you guys had a lot of channel sale in iPods to third-party retailers in the December quarter. How do you expect the trends to play out in March, and then maybe even further out in terms of direct versus channel sale?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Harry, to clarify, are you asking about channel inventories or what we think our direct sales may be?  

HARRY BLOUNT: Basically what I'm looking at is, is since you guys recognize revenue on sale-in to third-party retail, and I'm thinking mostly on the iPod side of the equation at this point, and also the fact that HP still hasn't rolled out completely yet, I'm trying to think -- trying to understand better how you're thinking about the mix between direct and channel going forward in the March quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry, I don't think I understand the question.  

HARRY BLOUNT: I'm basically trying to get at an understanding of how you expect the mix to change from the December quarter to the March quarter on a margin basis, based on the direct versus the indirect channels.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're not providing -- I'm not going to break our guidance down between what we think our direct and indirect channels may do and in the March quarter. I'll report to you, what they were at the time.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Harry. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: If I'm reading this right, your units in Europe look blow-out while the Americas were up only a little bit sequentially. So if you could explain that dynamic, maybe I'm not reading it right, but the units look pretty good in Europe, so if you could explain that? And then also there's something on the tape that just hit, Peter, with you talking about how iPod sales are translating into Mac sales. I just -- it's kind of obvious from the results, but if you could just talk about what you're seeing, what -- maybe you can give us some data in your retail stores that gives us more color on this multiplier effect that we're seeing here into all the parts of your business, that would be great? And then also just on the Mac mini I know you said you don't want to, I guess, give guidance, but anything there as far what segment you're going to put that in? Is it going to be its own line? Any other way we can think about that other than it's too early, that would be great, too?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will leave your question on Mac mini in terms of how we're going to distribute it for Tim, and I'll address the other ones that you asked. In terms of Americas, Ben, I presume you're looking at the data sheet, the Americas sequential unit growth was 1%. Remember that in Q4 that is the big U.S. education quarter, and so Q1 has much lower education sales on a sequential basis, but the consumer business then picks up, and so this is pretty typical of what we might see. Conversely, Q1 is Europe's big quarter and Europe had a great quarter. Their units were up on a sequential basis 106%. iBooks did quite well there, the G5 iMac did very well as well. And then as regards to the Americas don't forget that many of our 101 stores are in the Americas, and so you probably want to think about the retail sales that we had in part as well as you think about geographically sales in the Americas. As regards, you know what we may be seeing from the iPod for computer sales, or what I think some people may call the "halo affect," I think the bottom line measure of any increased consideration of our CPU products from Windows iPod users, or the halo, as some people call it, is Mac CPU unit sales. We were very pleased with last quarter's sales, up 26% year-over-year, which is about twice the market rate of growth that IDC had projected, and that could suggest that we enjoyed some increased consideration in conversion, but this is difficult to measure. Two data points that we were watching, the first is our new to Mac sales and retail stores, and in our retail stores, and those are running in the low to mid 40% range which we view as a positive indicator. And then we've recently become aware of a survey called the "student monitor." This is a group that does independent, third-party research about what higher education students intend to buy, and they suggested their intention to buy Mac over the next 12 months has increased. On the desktop side they're reporting it has increased from 2 to 9%, but on the portable side from 8 to 24%. As we said last quarter with our back-to-school results we felt that a lot of kids that had a good experience say in high school with an iPod opted to take an iBook or a PowerBook off to college with them.  

BEN REITZES: Can you grow double the market this year?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm not going to give you a forecast for future quarters, but we're all working hard and feel good about the strategies that we have put in place a number of years ago. Tim?  

TIM COOK: Ben, on the channel side, we have now increased iPod distribution to over 19,000 storefronts across the world. That's coming from when we began the iPod business, we were around 3,000. We are up sixfold, and that does not include incremental distribution that HP has done with the iPod that they are reselling. We always look and investigate different options for individual channels that we could roll out the Mac into and we'll continue to do that. Obviously, Mac mini is the largest vehicle to have some additional conversations, but I don't have anything to announce today about specific unique channels that are carrying that, that are not carrying the Mac today.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: David Bailey, Goldman Sachs.  

DAVID BAILEY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Two quick questions. The first one, can you talk a little bit about how much -- what percent of your sales was direct, including the online stores, and what type of impact that had on gross margins? And then also, if you could just provide some more detail on why Europe was so strong?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me take your first and I'll ask Tim to provide some color on his thoughts on Europe. Direct sales for Q1, and we measure again direct sales as sales through retail stores, online directly to customers, U.S. education and our music store, and direct sales for the quarter were 45%.  

TIM COOK: On Europe, what I would say is that the way that I look at this is because of the issue that Peter talked about where Europe is naturally higher in Q1, I look at Europe's performance on a year-over-year revenue basis than when you factor in the store that we have in Europe into our segment results Europe grew at 66%, and that 66 compares to the Americas with the same addition of retail of 81, and Asia/Pacific at 105, and so, I wouldn't say Europe was stronger. Europe was around the Company average, is the way we put it. The benefit they received frankly, was the same kind of benefits that we saw around the world, the iMac G5 was incredibly well-received. And the iBook, as Peter talked about in the preamble, set a Company record in terms of unit shipments.  

DAVID BAILEY: Can you just give us a little thinking on the target for the March quarter and what you think a normal sequential decline should be?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. The industry normally sees a mid double-digit seasonal decline from the December quarter to the March quarter. In addition, to our natural PC seasonality the iPod business has become a much larger component of our revenue, and with our 90% share of the hard drive-based MP3 player market here in the U.S. it seems reasonable that we could experience something closer to the typical seasonal demand for these consumer products, which I'm told is in the range of 50%.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Richard Gardner, Smith Barney.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Question on operating margins, Peter. I think you had been saying that under no circumstances should people be modeling less than sort of OpEx growing at 50% or 60% the rate of revenue, and yet you've been well-below that here for in the December quarter and you're below that in your March quarter guidance. So I was wondering if you could help us out with what we should be thinking in terms of OpEx growth versus topline, and maybe give us an update on your operating margin targets at various different revenue levels, if you could?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rich, when I had talked previously about our operating or financial success model, and again this is not giving guidance, but more just on a target basis, I talked about wanting to grow revenue at 15% or better. In the last -- this past quarter we grew revenue at 74% and I'm guiding to revenue growth of about 52% year-over-year. And, at those levels we have been able to have OpEx grow below the 50 to 60% that we had talked about within that financial success model. I don't think that we should rely on having revenue growing in the future at the kind of rates that we have seen at 74 or 50%. And I'm not going to give you a target, other than to say it's our objective to grow it at 15% or better. So I think as you model the Company, that would give you something to think about. As regards operating margin, as I look forward, we first of all have been talking about having an operating margin, again, on a target basis, of about 7% as revenue surpassed 11 billion. As I look forward, I would not target an operating margin on a longer term basis above 7% because I think a fair amount of our growth will come from iPod and consumer products that have lower gross margins and we're going to continue to invest in OpEx to -- and R&D to build more products, and in direct selling to open more stores and serve our customers online, and make investments in our channel and, of course, advertising the marketing programs.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Peter, just to follow-up on gross margin. Any change to the thinking on the gross margin targets that you had outlined previously and how you're going to think about the trade-off between pricing and letting the gross margins drift up as the direct mix increases?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I think, Rich, as we've talk about before, there are really 2 positive factors for gross margin and then one negative factor. I've tried to target a gross margin of 27 to 28%. The Company has traditionally operated in that range. The 2 factors in our business today that are positive for gross margin are first direct sales, where we retain the channel margin and tend to sell up the line. And secondly, our software portfolio. The negative factor is the hardware margin, and it's not only the CPUs, but the iPod as well. And so to date we have been able to balance that and stay within that range, but those are the factors that I would encourage you all to think about as you model the Company over the long-term.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.  

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations. If you could touch a little bit on, I think Ben's question about the Mac mini in terms of just some of the new channels you might be going into, and second, what the advertising on that might look like?  

TIM COOK: The point that, Gene, I made on the distribution was, I think we've done a really good job of broadening it for iPod. There are natural things that developed in relationships over time where we would investigate putting the Mac in different places, but I've got nothing to announce today.  

GENE MUNSTER: Would it be out of the question to see mass marketers like Best Buy who currently don't carry the CPUs would -- I'd assume that they'd have an interest in carrying something like this?  

TIM COOK: I've got nothing to announce today.  

GENE MUNSTER: Would the announcements come on January 22nd on the shipment?  

TIM COOK: On January 22nd I anticipate the same channels that today carry the Mac, having the Mac mini.  

GENE MUNSTER: But it's not safe -- or what's your take on the larger iPod channels carrying the Mac mini?  

TIM COOK: We will investigate it and when we decide to do something I'll make sure that I announce it.  

GENE MUNSTER: Just in terms of the marketing that you guys have had just a home run success with the iPod marketing. It seems like this is just an easy carry-over product from the success of the iPod. Is there any sort of -- is it going to be collaborative advertising between those 2 products or just your general thoughts on that front?  

TIM COOK: We don't really disclose our marketing plans. You can see some of the stuff that we did at the Mac World relative to the shuffle product, but we've got nothing else to talk about today.  

GENE MUNSTER: And in terms -- I know I'm probably not going to get an answer here, but let me ask this anyway. Is any expectations in terms of how many Mac minis you could at least produce in a quarter?  

TIM COOK: You're correct, it's not something that we're going to talk about. Our guidance is at the overall revenue level, not at the product level.  

GENE MUNSTER: And lastly, to a lesser important note, but on the iTunes Music Store was it profitable? Was it not profitable this year? And if it is profitable any sort of numbers we can use at looking at that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gene, the iTunes Music Store was slightly profitable in the December quarter and future profitability will depend on how we price our songs and our initiatives to grow the store.  

GENE MUNSTER: Just in terms of growth of the store, are movies at some point down the road, or do you foresee any -- obviously, you don't want to pre-announce anything, but is it safe to say that you're going to be reaching out into new areas with regard to iTunes?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Don't want to make any announcements today about what the Team may do at the store.  

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Great. Congratulations.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Kevin Hunt, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: And a couple of follow-up questions on a few things you were talking about there. On the mini Mac you mentioned it was the same margins as the eMac. Is that kind of on a similar margin to the iPod? That's the first question.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We have not shared the relationship of our eMac or iMac margins in relation to the iPod, but what I have said was that the Mac mini margins are generally equivalent to the eMac margins.  

KEVIN HUNT: But those are I assume below the Corporate average then?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, the eMac and mini margins are below the Corporate average.  

KEVIN HUNT: And then the second question was, just on the PowerBook, everything else looked pretty phenomenal in the quarter. That was the only thing that maybe was off a little bit from last quarter. So anything going on there that we should be thinking of or?  

TIM COOK: The year-over-year decline, Kevin, is primarily -- we believe it's primarily 2 reasons. The first is naturally in a December quarter with holiday sales the consumer product would have relatively higher demand. The second thing is that we announced new iBooks in October and generally speaking we see some movement between the product lines after we announced the new product. We are very focused on total CPUs versus the performance of any one line. And having said that if you look at the growth rate of 26%, which is about twice IDC's current forecast, we're very pleased with the rate of growth that we're seeing.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. That's good. I bought a PowerBook this quarter, so I thought I might have been a jinx or something like that, but.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, it wasn't you.  

KEVIN HUNT: Then the final question, you mentioned as a backlog on the iPod, was that with the mini iPod or the wide iPod?  

TIM COOK: We have just talked about iPod at the family level, not the individual SKU level.  

KEVIN HUNT: And actually one more final thing I'll throw out there. So the iMac in the quarter obviously is pretty huge numbers, I mean, how much of that is -- you know, channel sell-in versus how much was sold through? And then is there -- you go back, you did, I think the last iMac launched somewhere over 700,000 units in a quarter. Is that a target that's achievable?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Kevin, usually when we introduce a new CPU, it sees its best sells in its first quarter, and this quarter what the iMac saw first full quarter of shipping, and as I'm sure you remember in the September quarter we were constrained and the channel inventories were very, very low, so there was some benefit there. To answer your question, when we came out with the predecessor flat-panel iMac several years ago the first quarter shipments were 220,000 units, and then the next quarter of shipments, as we reported to you, were 173,000.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Joel Wagonfeld, First Albany Capital.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY CAPITAL: In terms of the Power Mac, that seemed a little bit weaker than I was expecting as well. If you could maybe comment on how much of that was potentially the shortage of the high-end processor? And then secondly, from a strategic perspective wondering if you could just address kind of where you're going with the Pages software? Does that imply that you'll have a spreadsheet program coming out and how are you managing your relationship with Microsoft to make sure that you don't damage that? Because obvious they're committed to it, they've said publicly, and you need Office for Mac as this part of the offerings to make sure that those who switch have everything available to them.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Joel, let me take your second question and Tim can address your first. Steve at the keynote yesterday introduced our new product called "iWork," which has Keynote and Pages, which is our successor to AppleWorks. And we have successfully sold AppleWorks alongside Microsoft Office for almost a decade now.  

TIM COOK: Joel, on the Power Mac, I'm assuming you're looking the year-over-year results which were down 4% in revenue and 19% in units. As you may recall last year, we were shipping the Power Mac G4 in the Power Mac category. In that particular quarter over 40% of the units sold were -- was that Power Mac G4, which was selling at the lower-end price point. This year, in October, as the G5 -- as we begin to get more G5 chips, we announced a single-processor Power Mac G5 to appeal to a subset of the customers who were buying at that lower price point that still wanted a tower. Internally we thought that many of those customers would shift to the iMac G5, which provided a -- an all-in-one solution. And based on the sell-through results for last quarter that clearly did occur, and so the net of that is that over 100% of the year-over-year reduction in the Power Mac unit was a result of that increased SKU. So given that we're really pleased with how the dual processor units are going and I would just reiterate once again that what we are focused on at Apple are total CPUs, and we're really happy with the two times the market growth rate.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Can you give us any color or quantification on what the backlog or shortage was on the higher-end CPUs or the higher-end chips?  

TIM COOK: We had some backlog there, and I don't want to be more specific than that. I would say that just to follow-up on that with you, to get this out, we are really happy with the effort at IBM and the results. It was a very predictable quarter. It went as we thought in terms of G5 supply and we believe that the 2.5 shortage that I talked about will be fixed by the end of Q2.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Just a quick follow-up on the shortage of the iPod. Was that from hard drive shortages, single-processor shortages or just an inability to produce them fast enough?  

TIM COOK: Well, we went from around 2 million iPods to the 4.58 number that Peter spoke about, and I don't want to get into the exact component issues. There's clearly not an assembly capacity kind of issue in iPod.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: So those shortages should be resolved this quarter?  

TIM COOK: You know, I don't want to get into the supply demand, where supply demand retook equilibrium put on iPod. I gave that up, at least publicly doing it last quarter, and I've vowed to myself not to do it any more.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Steve Fortuna, Prudential Equity Group.  

ANDREW SLAYON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Hi, this is actually Andrew Slayon for Steve Fortuna. I just have a couple of quick follow-up questions for you. First, can you talk about whether you were impacted by any excess air freight cost in the quarter as you were last quarter trying to meet backlog? Secondly, can you talk qualitatively about the hPod relationship and the role out there? And then lastly, is there any way you can give tax guidance beyond the FQ2? We know you had the higher tax rate this quarter and you have it for next quarter. Can you talk about how we can think about the full year on that line?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Let me take your tax question, then Tim will address your other two. Our tax rate for the quarter and also what we've projected for the full year is 31%, and that is up 3 points due to our higher overall earnings and a greater mix of those earnings here in the United States where we have a higher effective tax rate.  

TIM COOK: Andrew, on the air freight, in order to reach a supply-demand equilibrium on the iMac we air shipped virtually all of the iMac G5s during Q1. Relative to the relationship with HP and the volume there, HP's unit volume represented about 7% of total iPod shipments, which is very similar to last quarter. As you may know, Cary announced at CES last week, that HP will begin to sell the iPod photo at a later date. We have not announced timing on that. In addition, she announced that HP has now loaded iTunes on over 8 million consumer products, and so we are very happy with how this is going.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andrew. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Steve Bachman, Bank of America.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Hi, it's Keith Bachman. Peter, in the past you've been willing to say directionally what you thought iPod units would be and I just wondered if you would give any color to the March quarter on relative to the December quarter? Thats' the first question.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Keith, I'm sorry, we do not give unit guidance within our guidance, so I can't comment.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Not unit guidance. Just flat, down.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sorry, I don't want to get into providing even directionally product guidance.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, let me try No. 2 then. As you think about the growth trajectory over the next 6 to 12 months, I was just wondering if you could offer any geographic color on where -- would you see Europe and or Asia outgrowing the U.S. or any kind of comments or color there without getting into any numbers?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't -- we don't want to provide -- I'm sorry, I don't mean to not be helpful to you, but we just don't provide product or geographic level guidance.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Let me try the last one then. In the mini, it's the mini Mac, I should say, you're obviously going after an interesting part of the market without the monitor, mouse, and/or keyboard. Thoughts in pulling that stuff into your retail shop and/or your website so people can buy non-Apple related products there?  

TIM COOK: We have no intention of doing that. The Mac mini is really targeted, as Steve talked about, for people that have the mouse, and the keyboard, and the display. I'm certain that some of our channel partners will do that, and so that option will, I'm sure, exist.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Charles Wolf, Needham & Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: I sort of missed some of the points that were -- or information that was provided earlier. Peter, what were the total visitors to the stores during the quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: 10.7 million, Charlie.  

CHARLES WOLF: Did you indicate what percentage of the Mac purchases were to Window users? I thought I heard a number 40.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes. In the quarter, or actually in the last several months, it's been in the low to mid 40%.  

CHARLES WOLF: And in terms of visitors to the store do you have any breakdown between Windows and Mac?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, I'm sorry, we're not doing traffic surveys.  

CHARLES WOLF: The other numbers that you mentioned, you mentioned something about Japan, it was up before you added the 2 retail stores and after you added them in?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, revenue from the Japan segment was up 18% year-over-year, and then when we combine these segment results with the 2 Japan-based retail stores our revenue in Japan was up 26%.  

CHARLES WOLF: And finally, you mentioned some survey that you had done in the higher education market about students purchasing Macs?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, Charlie, we did not do the survey, but an independent third-party called the "Student Monitor" that does survey work about what higher education students are likely to buy, I think in technology and in other areas as well, that is the survey that I quoted.  

CHARLES WOLF: And so that's buying intention as opposed to what they've actually bought?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, intention to buy within the next 12 months.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Andrew Neff, Bear Stearns.  

ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS, & COMPANY: Just 2 things. One, I just wanted to clarify in terms of the tax rate do you see that 31% as sort of a permanent rate going forward, beyond the current year or is that just because of the mix and the current year? And secondly, just in terms of the -- on the Power Mac side of things, at one point you had talked about targeting a higher level. Do you see getting back to those higher levels, or do you see anything -- is there any particular issue with the Power Mac? That's about it.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Let me take your tax rate question and I think Tim can address your Power Mac. In terms of the tax rate, we project our tax rate for the year which we have done at 31%. That's what we see at this point, and I don't want to make predictions about what the fiscal '06 rate may or may not be.  

TIM COOK: Andy this is Tim. I'm assuming you're talking about a target the Company had sometime ago --?  

ANDREW NEFF: Right, the 200 level.  

TIM COOK: 200,000 Power Macs. I do not expect us to return to that. I believe that a significant percentage of the customers that were buying the Power Mac G4, which was included in that target, have shifted to iMac G5, and so given that, my view is we would not return to 200. Again, we are focusing on total units, not the units of any specific family.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Andy. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Robert Semple, Credit Suisse First Boston.  

ROBERT SEMPLE, ANALYST, CSFB: Tim real quick, can you give us your outlook for component costs in the next quarter, particularly as it relates to LCDs and memory?  

TIM COOK: We think we will continue to see favorable trends in LCD and memory and optical and in storage devices, and we think that other components will continue to decline at more of a historical averages.  

ROBERT SEMPLE: Peter, just real quick, any update on cash repatriation?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gary, would you like to take that?  

GARY WIPFLER, VP, CORPORATE TREASURER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Yes, sure. Well, we're currently working with outside counsel, tax counsel to better understand this, but it's still far too early in the process to make any conclusions.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Shannon Cross, Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH-SOLEIL: A follow-up to that, I guess, is use of cash given the cash balance you guys have. I understand probably, I don't know, maybe 40% is now overseas, but any thoughts there?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shannon, we are continuing to retain our cash for flexibility to invest in our business or potentially make acquisitions. And as Gary indicated, he and our outside tax counsel are evaluating how Apple could best take advantage of the Homeland [not] Repatriation Act, and once we have a plan that we have been through and have approval from our Board we will update you on it.  

SHANNON CROSS: Any feeling on what level of cash is comfortable? More or better than less, but?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't have a comment on that.  

SHANNON CROSS: And then a different question on the Mac mini. It seems like you have standard components on the Mac mini, but is there anything in there that we're missing that could possibly leave you with a capacity constraint?  

TIM COOK: Capacity constraints are relative to demand, Shannon, and we do not have a feel for the demand since we just announced it literally 30 hours ago or so.  

SHANNON CROSS: But these are all basically standard components that are out there today and you're using, correct?  

TIM COOK: Yes, to even standard things have lead times and obviously the enclosure itself and some of the other aspects of it are nonstandard.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Bill Shope, J.P. Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: I'm not sure if you're going to be able to answer this one, but have you made any progress where the components are constrained for the iPod? Have you made any progress on dual sourcing those components that should help you, particularly now that we're entering the seasonally weaker part of the year? And then a second question I think you could answer, is for the Music Store, now that you're seeing the volumes continue to increase with a more rapid rate with the iPod shipments, are you starting to see any improving leverage there, any margin improvement for the Music Store? I know it's not meant to be a profit center, but I'm just wondering if you're seeing any leverage there as we see the growth improve?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, I'll take your Music Store question and leave your first one for Tim. No, we continue to operate the Music Store, have really for the last several quarters, at just over breakeven. The variable cost structure within the Music Store is very, very high, and the fixed cost -- and then what's left over we amortize with a fixed cost, and we've been adding to our data center assets, and the Team is riding this best in-class store. So the objective is to operate it near breakeven as we think that selling more songs will help us sell iPods, and we believe will help us sell CPUs in the future. So no change in the strategy.  

TIM COOK: Bill, on iPod constraints, we were able to move from 2 million units in Q4 to 4.58 in Q1, and so obviously there were dramatic improvements made in the -- in our ability to supply that. I don't want to predict where that goes over time other than to say we will do whatever we view as necessary to get a supply at the level that we desire.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Bill Fearnley. FTN Midwest Securities.  

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST RESEARCH: Couple of questions for you. Could you update us on the servers and what you're seeing in the server space currently?  

TIM COOK: We just announced last week that we have moved the Xserve to a 2.3, and this is the same unit that we sold to Virginia Tech some months ago that wound up once again in the Top-10 Supercomputer List. And so we continue to invest in this area. We include those sales results in the Power Mac area and do not split those up separately.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Are you happy with the way they're trending even though you don't break it out?  

TIM COOK: Yes, I'm happy with server sales. I'd obviously love for them to be more, but, yes, I'm happy with them.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Then a follow-up here on the air freight. Do you expect that you'll have any air freight, that you'll have to air freight significant product or components into the U.S., particularly to support the new product introductions? So what's your air freight expense expectation for this quarter versus what you would have incurred last quarter for the products like the G5?  

TIM COOK: There will be some air freight associated with iMac G5 that continues into Q2, but it will be significantly less than what we did in the Q1 time frame. Relative to the new products, we typically, to get things to a storefront location at launch, we'll air freight certain products, and we do have a plan to do that on the Mac mini, and on some percentage of the software packages that you heard announced at Mac World, including iLife and iWork, et cetera.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Then a follow-up question on the customer segments here. What's your latest trend that you're seeing in the pro, pro graphic segment? And is there any difference in what's happening in the market versus your expectation domestically, and overseas as well, if you could comment on that segment?  

TIM COOK: We saw in our pro markets in general, we saw relatively strong, both hardware and software sales during Q1 in the audio vertical, as a result we believe of the Logic 7 released that happened in the -- fairly beginning of the quarter in the October time frame. Additionally, we continue to perform well in the video vertical building on the release of Production Suite which happened late in the Q4 time frame. The D&P market is still very flattish, not -- it is not a growth area.  

BILL FEARNLEY: And one last question on the customer segments. Are you seeing folks buy more iMac than you would have originally expected given the popularity of that product? Or are you seeing that most of those folks go to the pro segment going to the G5 as you had expected before with the Power Mac?  

TIM COOK: As I said before, at the low end of the Power Mac family with the people -- the customers that were buying Power Mac G4 previously, we believe, based on the sales results that we saw during Q1, that a large percentage of those customers did move to the iMac G5. But in the video and audio spaces that I just talked about, most of those customers continue to buy dual processor units because they really want the performance associated with those units.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Rob Cihra, Fulcrum Global Partners.  

ROB CIHRA, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Two questions if I could. First one, just to double-check, so apart from saying that HP was 7% of iPod units there's no more help in terms of the mini versus the larger size split; is that right?  

TIM COOK: HP only sells the iPod. They do not sell the iPod mini.  

ROB CIHRA: Sorry. No, I meant in terms of -- I was just double-checking that you weren't going to give us anymore in terms of apart from HP just in terms of your own mini versus larger-size split.  

TIM COOK: You're correct.  

ROB CIHRA: Secondly, and I'm not sure if there's anything you could say on this at all because I know you don't talk specifically about new products, but even more generally I'm assuming the PowerBook you would like to do a G5 version at some point you're probably begging for it, can you even talk high level, if that's the type of thing we might hope for this year, second half, next year? And if not, then at least maybe, if you're going to let people know, maybe what any of the hurdles are? Is it a technical issue? Is it a manufacturing issue? Is it waiting for a new generation chip from IBM? Is it power? Is it heat? Or is it just simply staggered timing, you start with the Power Mac, either the iMac, and at one point you'll do the PowerBook, but it's more of a marketing thing?  

TIM COOK: Rob, as you know, we don't comment on our road map, but let me be clear on this one. It would be the mother of all thermal challenges to do what you're suggesting.  

ROB CIHRA: Right. And -- I understand that now. I guess I just assumed that at one point that was something you were going to try and do. Are you saying that mother of all challenges, meaning don't ever expect a G5 PowerBook?  

TIM COOK: I don't want to go further in the comment. I just -- you know --.  

ROB CIHRA: Right. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Steve Lidberg, Pacific Crest Securities.  

STEVE LIDBERG, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: In terms of iPod I was wondering if you could give us any sense of momentum with iPod internationally and specifically, I guess, in some of the more mature markets where you're selling iPod? Are the market share figures looking similar to that at the U.S., or can you give us an update there? Also would like to know relative to iPod, any amount of inventory or significant inventory in your indirect channels given the expansion of storefronts? Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me take the first part of your question and Tim can comment on the inventories. The only public data that I am aware of outside of the United States, besides what we see from NPD is GFK in Japan, and the last number that I remember them reporting was in the 40% range for iPod share for us.  

TIM COOK: I would just add to that, that our results in Australia and the United Kingdom outside of the United States were stunning, and a clear portion of that was iPod in addition to the Macintosh business. Relative to your question on iPod we look at weeks of inventory. On a look-back-basis we ended the quarter with about 2.5 weeks of inventory, and on the breadth of channel we have, that's not a lot, obviously. As we look forward to March we think the level of inventory is appropriate for the March quarter sales. Although frankly, I wish that we had more of certain models of the iPod in the channel.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Ben Reitzes, UBS.  

BEN REITZES: I had a follow-up. Wanted to know with regard to Europe seasonality if that trend, though, is at all sustainable due to the -- or if you add the retail stores and what you think you'll open, what that looks like on a sustainable basis? And then also, did you say what segment in reporting-wise you're going to start to put the Mac mini in? Is it going to be in the iMac segment going forward?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, Ben, we didn't say, but when we begin to sell the Mac mini in the March quarter we will put that in the iMac on the product summary. And in terms of Europe, again, we're not going to give geographic or product level forecast, but as I said, if you just go back in history Q1 is Europe's big quarter. And you can go back and look at the data summaries that we've provided, and probably other companies, to get a sense of what seasonality there may be in the March quarter.  

BEN REITZES: And then one other clarification, Peter. When you talked about iPod units down 50%, obviously, you have a new product, the shuffle, are 2 of them. So we should take, did that mean take the mini and the wide iPods and have them go down 50% sequentially, but then add the shuffle estimate to that? Or did you mean all iPod units go down 50% including the shuffle?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: First of all, I did not say that I thought iPod units would definitively go down 50%. My comment was more just providing what I believe in our PC business normal seasonality in our industry has been and what we see or we've heard in typically the CE business. So again, just to be clear, the PC industry normally sees a mid double-digit decline from the December quarter to the March quarter, and I'm told that the CE industry for cameras and MP3 players and things like that may see something in the 50% range. And so as you think about our business with the market share that we have on the hard drive-based MP3 players, I just wanted to point that out to you. We're not going to give guidance on the hard drive-based player. In terms of total iPod shipments for the March quarter that would include not only the various hard drive models that we've talked about but, of course, the shuffle, and that -- putting those 2 together would be additive and we'll report to you in April how we did for the March quarter in total.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. We have time for one more question. Could we have the last question, please?  

OPERATOR: Follow-up from Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.  

GENE MUNSTER: When asked about the future profitability of iTunes Music Store it seemed like you indicated some of the profitability could change based on a number of factors, including changes in price. Basically my question is, have you been expecting the price to stay at 99 cents or is there more of a potential for the pricing to change now than before? It seems like a new comment that you had there.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, Gene, it's really consistent with what I've been saying for I think a year, that we have been operating the store just above breakeven. It's not currently our intention to make a lot of money on the store itself, because we believe that selling music will help us to sell iPods, and as I said, we believe that will help us to sell computers. But the store could fall below breakeven at some point in the future if we decided to do certain things to say grow our sales, pricing could be one of those things, or investments that we may make in more people or taking it to more places. That's what my comment was really referencing, and there's no change to what I've been saying over the last year.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. A recording of today's call will be available for replay via telephone for 7 days beginning at 5 p.m. pacific time today. And the number for that replay is 719-457-0820, and the confirmation code is 725917. A replay of the audio webcast of this call will also be available beginning at approximately 5 p.m. pacific time today at  www.apple.com/investor  and will remain available for approximately 12 months. Members of the Press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570. And I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050126e11c0015w
  


 HD
 Q4  2004 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,434 words
   PD
13 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss fourth quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead, ma'am.  

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR & CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer. And he'll be joined by EVP of Worldwide Sales and Operations, Tim Cook; and VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Wipfler, for the Q&A session with analysts.  

   TD
Please note that some of the information that you will hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, capitalized research and development expense, other income and expense, tax, earnings per share, Apple's retail initiative, the iTunes Music Store, manufacturing issues associated with the PowerPC G5 microprocessor, and future products. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to pages 39 through 48 of Apple's latest Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 26th, 2004. Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed will be posted on Apple's website at  www.apple.com/investor. In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the internet. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, SVP & CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you for joining us. We are pleased to report an outstanding quarter that exceeded our expectations. Revenue of 2.35 billion was up 37% year-over-year, and represented the highest fourth fiscal quarter revenue for Apple in 9 years. Net income was 106 million, or 26 cents per diluted share. These GAAP results include an after-tax restructuring charge of 4 million, or 1 cent per diluted share, primarily related to vacating some European sales office space, as previously indicated. Our results were driven by a second consecutive quarter of over 450,000 portable Mac shipments, extraordinary sales of over 2 million iPods, and strong performance from our retail and online stores, and our U.S. education channel. Operating margin increased to 5.4% from 1.8% in the year-ago quarter. Excluding the restructuring charge, operating margin was 5.7%, demonstrating the leverage in Apple's financial model that can be achieved as revenue grows.  

I'd like to first talk about our Mac-based revenue, which consists of our Mac desktop and portable computers, the Mac OS X operating system, our expanding line of consumer and professional application software, and the support services, accessories, and peripherals that surround these products. We shipped 836,000 Macintosh units during the quarter, and Mac-based revenue was up 9% year-over-year. Overall unit shipments in revenue were constrained due to lower expected G5 microprocessor availability that adversely affected the number of PowerMacs and iMacs that we were able to ship. As a result, sell through of CPU units was greater than sell in during the quarter, causing ending channel inventory of total Mac units to fall below our minimum target of 4 weeks. Portable shipments grew a robust 44% from the year-ago quarter, and accounted for 54% of total Macs sold during the quarter. iBook shipments were up 74%, while PowerBook shipments were up 21%. We sold 385,000 desktop systems during the quarter, consisting of 156,000 PowerMacs, 56,000 flat panel iMacs, and 173,000 eMacs. While eMac unit sales were up 19% from the year-ago quarter, iMac and PowerMac sales were constrained due to the G5 processor supply.  

Now let me discuss our music-based revenue, which consists of the iPod and iPod mini portable digital music players and their accessories, as well as the iTunes online music service. Our music-based revenue grew 370%. We had an incredible quarter for iPods, shipping 2,016,000 units, 6 times as many as in the year-ago quarter, and over twice the number in the June quarter's volume. HP started selling iPods in September as planned, and accounted for about 6% of total iPods sold during the quarter. The international launch of the iPod mini, the introduction of the fourth generation iPod, the broader iPod channel, and better availability of critical components all contributed to the outstanding iPod quarter. The iPod has continued to gain market share and remains the number one selling MP3 player by an even-wider margin. The iTunes Music Store, with a catalog of over 1 million songs, continues to be the leading online music service, with more than a 70% share of U.S. legal downloads based on the latest information from Nielsen SoundScan. We are focused on broadening the availability of the iTunes Music Store, and expect to expand to additional European countries by the end of this month.  

The Apple retail stores had a terrific quarter. Retail segment revenue was 376 million, which represents an increase of over 100 million from the June quarter, and a 95% growth over the year-ago quarter. With an average of 81 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was 4.6 million, up from 3.1 million, in the year-ago quarter, a 48% increase. The retail store segment profit was 18 million, or 4.8% of retail revenue, again, demonstrating the leverage in Apple's financial model that is achievable through revenue growth. In addition, there were 68 million in manufacturing profit associated with the retail segment revenue. Traffic was very strong during the quarter, with 7.8 million people visiting our stores, translating into 7.4 thousand visitors per store, per week. This compares to 5.3 thousand visitors per store, per week in the year-ago quarter. We are looking forward to opening our first European store on Regent Street in London in November. The London store will represent our third international store, joining our stores in Tokyo and Osaka. We expect to open other stores in the U.K. and Japan later in the fiscal year. We opened 6 stores during the quarter, bringing the quarter-end total to 86, and expect to exit the calendar year with 100 stores. Later this week, we will be unveiling an entirely new retail design for a store that is half the size of our smallest store today to date. The new store -- the new store's small size will allow it to be placed in a variety of interesting new locations to introduce Apple's innovative products to even more customers. We will be opening our first 6 mini stores this Saturday across the U.S.  

Results from our U.S. education channel were extremely positive. Overall, CPU units were up 19% year-over-year. Revenue was up 21%, making it Apple's biggest education quarter in over 4 years. Our K-12 business turned in a very strong result considering the weak funding environment, achieving revenue growth of over 9% year-over-year. We are very pleased with the results of our K-12 business and believe that our focus on delivering the best one-to-one solutions is the driving force behind this growth. Higher education sales grew 34% year-over-year. We had a very successful back-to-school selling season with high demand for our portables. In terms of geographic performance, revenue in Europe was up 31% year-over-year, while revenue in the Americas, excluding the retail segment, was up 29%. Combining the America segment results with U.S. sales from the retail segment, it was a year-over-year increase of 39%. Revenue in the Japan segment was up 2% year-over-year. Combining the Japan segment results with sales from our 2 Japan-based retail stores yields a 12% year-over-year increase.  

Gross margin was 27%, consistent with guidance. Excluding the pre-tax restructuring charge of 5 million, operating expense was 501 million, about 16 million higher than expected, primarily due to variable selling expenses associated with the higher-than-expected revenue. OI&E was 19 million, 4 million higher than guidance, primarily due to higher-than-expected yields on our cash investments. The tax rate for the quarter was 28%, as expected. In terms of the balance sheet, cash was 5.464 billion, up almost 500 million, sequentially. The cash growth reflects continued strong asset management and contributions from operating income, as well as proceeds from employee stock option exercises, which were approximately 108 million, excluding related tax benefits during the quarter. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were 59 million, including 35 million for our retail initiative. For the full fiscal year, capital expenditures totaled 176 million, of which 104 million was for retail.  

Looking ahead to the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the quarter, we are targeting a revenue between 2.8 and 2.9 billion, and diluted earnings per share, of 39 to 42 cents. We expect gross margin to be about 27.25%. We expect OpEx to be about 560 to $570 million. The projected OpEx does not include 15 million of capitalized costs related to the development of Mac OS X Tiger. We expect OI&E to be about 22 million, and we expect the tax rate to be 28%.  

In conclusion, 2004 was a very strong year for Apple. Net income quadrupled to 276 million, and revenue grew 33% to over 8 billion, Apple's highest annual revenue in eight years. We believe the investments we have made in our innovative products and distribution channels, especially our own retail and online stores, are starting to pay off, through higher revenue and expanding operating margins. We are looking forward to a very exciting holiday quarter. We just started shipping the new iMac G5, and it's off to a great start. And as always, there is more exciting product news to come. And with that, I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. If you'd like to ask a question, please signal by pressing the star key, followed by the digit 1 on your touch-tone telephone. If are you using a speaker phone, please make sure that you do turn off your mute button to ensure that our equipment can reach your signal. We will come to you in the order that you signal, and we will take as many questions as time permits. Again, that is star, 1 on your touch-tone telephone to signal with a question, and we'll pause for just a moment to assemble our roster. We'll take our first question from Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Hi, thank you. A couple of questions. One, on the iTunes, can you give us what the total is, to date, of iTunes? And also, you can make some more comments about, you know, there's a lot more competition coming into that market, and there has been some discussion, obviously, of some companies trying to, you know, hack your software, for lack of a better word. Can you, maybe, talk about what you, kind of, see in the future there of, kind of, getting more standards on the music player side of things?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. As regards iTunes, we're very pleased with our sales, we've got about 70% market share in the U.S. We're the leading provider in Europe. And we will be opening more stores in more European countries by the end of the month. And we'll, from time to time, release music sales as we cross major milestones. On terms of MP3 players, you know, we're always concerned about real or potential competition. But in this case, we're in pretty good competitive position. We've got about 65% share, according to MPD in the U.S. And we're widely recognized as the market leader and innovator. We're making big investments in both engineering and marketing, and expect to stay in the lead.  

KEVIN HUNT: Any thoughts in terms of standards developing over time or -- ?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we're just really focused on developing more great innovation and features into the iTunes Music Store and the iPod. As I said, the iPod has 65% share of -- in the U.S. of all MP3 players, it's actually over 90% for hard drive players, and it connects to the iTunes Music Store, and we've got over 70% market share. So, we're just really going to focus on making those 2 solutions greater and greater.  

KEVIN HUNT: All right. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Yes, ma'am. We will take our next question from Richard Gardner with Smith Barney.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Okay, thank you. A couple of questions. First, Peter, could you discuss the impact of air freight on your gross margins in the third calendar quarter if it was material, and whether you expect that to continue into December? And then, also, maybe, just give us an update on both the processor and the 1-inch drive constraints, where you think you are, and when you expect supply/demand in those areas to come into balance.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. I'll take your first question, and then have your second question answered by Tim. We did air freight all of the new iMac G5s that we shipped in our fourth quarter, and plan to air freight the ones that we will ship in the December quarter. And that was built into our September quarter guidance, and it is built into the guidance I gave you for the fourth -- or for the fourth calendar quarter.  

TIM COOK, EVP, WORLDWIDE SALES & OPERATIONS, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: All right, Rich, it's Tim. On the -- on the G5, for Q4, all models of the PowerMac and the iMac were constrained due to the lower-than-anticipated supply that Peter spoke about in his opening comments. As you know, we had expected the PowerMac dual 1.8 and 2.0 configurations to reach a supply-demand balance in August, but that did not happen due to yield issues. We had expected the PowerMac 2.5 to be short during the quarter and the iMac to be short during the quarter, but the supply of both of those was were also less than we'd anticipated. However, we did ship more G5 systems in August than we had shipped in July. And in September, we shipped twice as many as we had the combined total of July and August. And so that has given us confidence that this quarter will be materially better. During Q1, we expect to achieve a supply-demand balance on every G5 model that we ship, of PowerMac and iMac, with the possible exception of the 2.5 gigahertz PowerMac. While we're certain that the 2.5 gigahertz supply will improve significantly, we may remain constrained throughout the quarter on that model. On the 1.8-inch drive, you can see from our results that we had a phenomenal order on iPod, similar to the G5 in some respects. We shipped more in August than July. We also shipped more in September than August. We are confident that we'll achieve a marked increase in the overall supply during Q1, but frankly, the demand on this is very difficult to call. It -- it has been, you know, amazing, as I've said before, in the previous call. And so I don't want to predict that supply and demand balance. But I am confident that the supply will be -- we'll have a marked increase.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Two followups, if I can, I don't suppose if you'd be willing to give us a breakout of mix of mini versus classic iPod. And then, secondly, Peter, would you be willing to quantify a little more specifically what the gross margin impact was of the air freight?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We, for competitive reasons, do not want to break out the mix of the various iPods. And the air freight impacted us, you know, likely to the tune of 40 to 50 dollars, about that range, per unit to air freight it.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. All right. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon, thanks. Can you hear me?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Okay, great. I have just a couple of questions. First, on the inventory levels, Peter, you commented about being below where you want on the G5. Our research would suggest that you were also low late in the quarter on the other CPUs as well. I'm just curious if were you able to ship late in the quarter to get inventories back up to where you'd like for the other CPUs, or if you have lower than you'd like to see inventories going into the fourth quarter as well?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't want to talk specifically about individual product lines. Our CPU inventory was overall in about the mid three-week range. And that was driven by the microprocessor constraint on the new iMac and on the G5 PowerMacs.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Okay. So no -- you know, from that standpoint, I just want to make sure I'm understanding correctly, not suggesting that there are inventory issues on other products.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, no. We -- we ended the other products within our normal range.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And then from a broader strategic question, if I look at your notebook share, and this is just taking U.S.-based retail scanner data, but if I look at your notebook share, it's been tracking considerably higher than desktop share, I think, for obvious reason, given the product refreshes that you've had. Is there -- as we think about that, given how much traction you have with the iMac, that you've just introduced, is there any conceptual reason why we shouldn't see the desktop shares start to migrate toward the desktop share that we've seen over the last four quarters?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry, see it migrate to our prior -- ?  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Toward the notebook share. So you've got a significantly greater notebook share, let's say 6 to 8% --  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Right.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: -- versus 3 to 4 in desktops. And given the iMac and the traction that you're seeing, just conceptually why wouldn't we see the desktop share start to migrate up towards the notebook?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well I don't want to make any predictions about individual products. We're very excited about the -- the new iMac. It is off to a great start. We ended the quarter with a significant backlog, and we're very happy with the reviews that it's getting. As an example, Walt Mossberg in the Journal just a couple of weeks ago called it the most elegant computer he's ever used. And we just couldn't be happier with customer response, and we will report to you on how sales go each quarter.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Okay. And just one last thing, this is somewhat off topic, but topical nonetheless, given the changes in the American Jobs Act and that being passed into law, any new commentary or perspective given your large cash balance overseas in terms of repatriating that cash?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You know, the Act I think is just made it through both sides of the aisle and it is on its way to the President's desk, and if and when he signs it into law, we will sit with our tax advisors and see how it might benefit Apple.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Great. Thank you, very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rebecca. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Good afternoon. A question on HP and the iPod. I'm curious how you're feeling in terms of the roll-out of the iPod from HP's standpoint. I think if I did the math right, you put in about 120,000 units through the HP channel during the quarter. You know, how far along are you in terms of rolling it out domestically? And then if you can talk any more about the international roll-out?  

TIM COOK: Shannon, this is Tim. HP decides where they sell the Apple iPod from HP. And so that question would be a better question for HP. I would point out that they are shipping the iTunes client in every consumer desktop and notebook around the world, and so we're getting fantastic distribution of the iTunes client. And, you know, we continue to be very pleased that HP has selected the iPod and the Music Store and are standing with us with these products.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And then a question with regard to costs going forward, there's obviously a substantial leverage with, you know, with the iPod, how should we think about your SG&A costs? You know, you've held them down quite well, you know, as we move into fiscal '05, is there any additional costs that may pop up that you think about? You know, greater marketing campaigns, or are you pretty happy with the current state of your advertising and marketing budget?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, let me just answer that question, but then I'd like to expound a little bit on our business model. We're going to continue to invest in advertising and other direct sales and marketing programs to grow our business. As I -- I think about the model, we don't want to provide guidance beyond the next quarter, but it would be my objective to see revenue grow at about 15%, in terms of gross margin. We'd like to see that stay in the 27 to 28% range. However, it's important to understand that there are positive and negative factors that will affect gross margin. In general, we have 2 positive vectors for gross margin, and 1 negative one. The first positive vector is our growing direct business, where we retain the channel margin and tend to sell up the line and attach more. The second positive vector is our growing portfolio of Apple-branded software, where the gross margins are quite high. On the negative side, is our hardware business, and I put the iPod in there as well, where pricing is very competitive. From an OpEx perspective, we'd like to see OpEx grow at about 50 to 60% of our revenue growth rate, and this is what is driving the leverage into our model. And from an operating perspective, operating margin perspective, as a percent of revenue, I'd like to see it about 6% as we get over 10 billion in revenue, and about 7% as we get over 11 billion. And we will just, Shannon, continue to make the investments necessary in the business to grow the top line, because that's really where the leverage in our business is coming from.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Great. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Joel Wagonfeld with First Albany.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY: Thanks, very much. Two-part question on the iPods. Because you mentioned you had a number of things going for you this quarter, in terms of the iPod volumes, the HP channel fill, the -- the, kind of, demand for the mini, and the new product rollout, should we think about this new 2 million, kind of, watermark as resetting the run rate expectations here, or was it more, kind of, those one-time factors and it's really just going to be the holiday season, seasonality next quarter? And then secondly, on iPod mini margins, I'm just wondering with improvements in the constraints on the components, is there any reason to expect that margins might improve there? Or is the deal that you got when you committed to volumes originally, kind of, as good as it gets in terms of the gross margin on the minis?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Joel, let me start with your second question, and then I'll come back to your first, and Tim may want to add some to the first. In terms of the iPod margins, I don't want to give specific margins on that product line, given the competitive nature in the MP3 player space right now. However, in the September quarter, we were close to the previous 20% that I spoke about, and I'll give you a general update in January on how the December quarter went. In terms of future sales, we don't provide specific product-line guidance, but as I think Tim commented earlier, we would expect to see a marked increase in the December quarter in terms of unit shipments.  

TIM COOK: Yeah, Joel, I would just point out that the -- as Peter said in his opening comments, the HP channel field, I think as you called it, was only 6% of the 2 million. And so, you know, I wouldn't -- I wouldn't paint it as a one-time kind of event. What we saw when we launched internationally at the end of July, and we had postponed that 90 days, as you recall, was, you know, staggering demand internationally. And still, at the end of the quarter, we saw significant backlogs in virtually every country. Now, that said, we are not in the prediction of demand at the individual level, and it's been very difficult to predict demand on here. What I am comfortable with saying is that there will be a marked increase in supply in our -- in our Q1.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Thanks very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Joel. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Gene Munster with Piper Jaffray.  

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Hey, good afternoon, and congratulations. In terms of the -- just a carry over effect, I guess, on the iPod, the question that gets asked every quarter, any just generic thoughts on that? And second is, in terms of your core CPU business, and second, maybe you could talk a little bit about just general branding strategies to try to get -- accelerate that carry-over effect going into the holidays?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Gene, we continue to believe that the success we're having in iPod is translating into the computer business. One of the reasons I think our retail stores did so well, up, sequentially 100 million year-over-year, was not only the iPod sales, but the halo-effect with computer sales. And Ron attributes a lot of the increase in traffic that he has seen, not only to the great retail strategy in terms of where we decided to put stores, how attractive they are, and a great service culture that he's built within them, but the halo that music is having over the computer business. And we ran for the second year in a row our promotion where you -- if you bought an iPod and a qualifying portable, we'd send you $100 rebate, and that went very, very well, not only in our stores, but I think in the education business, as well.  

GENE MUNSTER: Is there any way to just quantify the halo effect?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We continue to sell, still in our retail stores today, close to 50% of computer sales are to people that are either buying the PC for the first time are or new to Mac. And I would think that over 3 years into our retail venture, that that number would go down, but it seems to stay, you know, in the mid 40 to 50% range. And I think one of the big reasons is the halo effect that the iPod and music is having.  

GENE MUNSTER: Just in terms of the kind of advertising campaign, to try to draw that connection?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think you will continue to see great advertising from us this holiday quarter. We're very excited about the campaign that we just started last night, featuring U2. And I think that you will see Apple and U2 working together on some other things in the coming weeks.  

GENE MUNSTER: But it doesn't sound like that's going to be, necessarily, a direct tie between the iPod and maybe the iMac?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We -- we -- you know, I think there is a good tie between the success we're having with music. You may have seen some ads where we're associating the new iMac with the iPod, and the great design of both, as an example.  

GENE MUNSTER: And just one follow-up question, in terms of, I guess, people having problems with the iPod and turning those in for, kind of, rebates or getting their warrantees fulfilled, any issues in terms of that creeping up as the number of iPods escalates -- just the factory costs on those?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We are very confident in the iPods that we're shipping, and I'm not aware of any problems of that nature.  

GENE MUNSTER: Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Gene. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Yes, ma'am. We'll go next to Steve Milunovich with Merrill Lynch.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Sorry about that. Could you comment on your, kind of, corporate PC demand in the desktop publishing space? And it's a little hard to tell what's going on given the chip constraints, but, you know, do you feel like we're seeing acceleration in the cycle there? And then also, maybe, comment overall on your PC pricing strategy. The iMac looks, you know, fairly aggressively price relative to the Windows world. Some reviewers still say, boy, if Apple had a $500 computer, they'd be doing great-guns business. What is your view on that?  

TIM COOK: Steve, I'll take the first point. In the -- it is difficult, as you said, to make definitive statements about the pro markets because of the constraint. However, in general, we continue to see strength in the video vertical and the Citech verticals. Video was further fueled during the Q4 period by the launch of Motion, which is our latest video app. We believe that our -- the recent release that happened in October of our new audio apps, Logic Pro 7 and Logic Express, will similarly stimulate some CPU sales in the audio vertical markets for Q1. The D&P vertical did show some signs of improvement in some channels last quarter. But frankly, with the constraint and it's just too early to call that a trend at this point.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And Steve, in terms of our pricing, I feel very good about where each of our product lines are priced, not only iMac, but the -- I think our portables are very competitively priced, and the PowerMac, for its feature and performance, I think is very appropriately priced as well. To date, we have chosen to not compete in the sub-$800 desktop market, and have put that R&D investment in expanding our products in the music area, in software, and in hardware. And I think that's really driven great top-line and bottom-line growth to the Company.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Do you expect any likely success in the traditional corporate space given the virus problems? obviously AT&T is apparently testing your system along with Linux, but is that -- is that likely just to be fringe, or could it actually become meaningful some day?  

TIM COOK: We have set up a relatively small direct sales force, and we're working through the channel in order to discuss and sell units into spaces that are interested in virus and security, but its too early to tell what size that opportunity is.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have our next question please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Harry Blount with Lehman Brothers.  

HARRY BLOUNT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, guys. Just wanted to probe the guidance a little bit more. Just trying to understand a little bit of what went into the guidance from a seasonality standpoint versus how much is related to catch-up on supply constraints, and then also, catching up on getting your inventory levels back to a level that you're comfortable with.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We have a very thorough process, where at the end of a quarter, as we come into a new quarter, we evaluate what we think the demand for our products will be. And what we think our supply constraints may be, and what it will cost us to make those products. And we went through that process this quarter, as we have done in all prior quarters, and that was the basis for the guidance that we gave.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Just in terms of seasonality, what might you consider normal seasonality? And then a related question is, what kind of revenue impact do you think the supply constraints cost you in this -- in the September quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I think it would be impossible for me to quantify what the constraints that we saw on various products might have cost us in the September quarter. That being said, I could not have been happier with how the September quarter turned out. In terms of seasonality, traditionally, Q4 is one of our big U.S. education quarters. It tends to be the high-ed quarter. And as we look forward to Q1, it's clearly the big Christmas quarter, it's a big quarter in Europe and it tends to be a reasonable corporate quarter as well.  

HARRY BLOUNT: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Harry. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Ben Reitzes with UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon. Nice quarter. I guess a lot of questions were already asked, but a couple of things with regard to components, we've seen a break in panels. Could you talk about what that did in the quarter, and what it is potentially going to do in the calendar fourth quarter, fiscal first quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll let Tim talk specifically about some of the components, and then I'll make a few overall Company margin comments.  

TIM COOK: Ben, in Q4, we did anticipate declines as we entered the July quarter in mini components, but both memory and LCD fell further than we had expected during the quarter. In terms of going forward in Q1, we expect the favorable pricing trends to continue for hard drives, for optical drives, and for LCD panels. We expect DRAM pricing to stabilize within a relatively small trading range, and other commodities that I didn't list, we expect that they will fall at rates consistent with historical trends.  

BEN REITZES: What's historical trend? Sorry, like what do you consider to be historical trends?  

TIM COOK: Well, it's different by commodities. That'd be a difficult question to answer.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. Well, with regard to big picture, looking at components, is it safe to say that these kind of trends allow you to keep the gross margin at this 27 to 28% level despite a mixed shift towards lower margin iPods? I mean, is this -- is this what's one of the big factors enabling this to stay very stable into next year?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, Ben, I've not made specific guidance comments beyond our first quarter. The reason that I've guided up in terms of gross margins from where we ended in Q4 to Q1 is largely because of the favorable commodity environment.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. And if I could, just follow up, I think you said you did 18 million in profit in retail; is that right, Peter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: On a segment basis, yes. And there was, I believe, $68 million of manufacturing profit associated with the retail sales.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. Is there -- is there anything that we should think about, going forward, or can you help us think about retail going forward in its EPS contribution? You know, obviously, the sales beat our expectations, so so did the profit, but it seems like a pretty good performance there, and perhaps a bigger swing factor. I guess how is that impacted in your guidance, and what you said some of your targets would be for '0, for --  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ben?  

NANCY PAXTON: Ben, are you still there?  

OPERATOR: Mr. Reitzes, if you'll press star, 1 on your phone again, please. It appears that Mr. Reitzes' phone line has disconnected.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. We'll take the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, ma'am. We'll go next to Charles Wolf of Needham & Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Hi, guys. I got a couple of questions. What percentage of sales came from the Apple online store?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Charlie, our total direct sales in the quarter, and as you know, we define that as sales online, through retail, U.S. education, and our music sales, were 52% of total Company revenues. That was up from 43% in the year-ago quarter. And the 2 biggest pieces of that this quarter were the online and retail sales.  

CHARLES WOLF: Is that 52% worldwide?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. And the second question, you may not have this data yet, but I'm curious as to the outstanding options at the end of the year. Do you have that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, at the end of our fourth quarter, we had 55 million outstanding options.  

CHARLES WOLF: So that's down from last year?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't have last year's --  

CHARLES WOLF: I think it was 63.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah, it would be down from, I'm sure, from last year. Last quarter, it was 61.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Fine. Thanks a lot.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: You're welcome.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Keith Bachman with Banc of America.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Hi, thanks very much. Peter, you went a little fast for me on the longer-term model. I thought you said 11 million -- 11 billion was the 7% operating target. Did I hear that correctly?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah, I -- what I said is when we -- I'd like to see the op margin at about 6%, as we get above 10 billion in revenue, and about 7% as we get above 11.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. In the past, I thought it's been 7% at 10 billion. A, is that correct? And B, if it is correct, what's changed? Is it the mix?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I think we've done a great job expanding our operating margin and profitability this year. And I believe that with revenue growth, we can continue to do that in the future. You know, however, the gross margin may track to the lower end of the range. As a result of competitive pricing on CPUs and iPods. And I expect us to continue to invest in developing great, innovative products and expanding our direct distribution to grow revenue, which is really what's driving the leverage.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. I know -- I think Ben hit this, but let me try a different angle. You guys had a great quarter. Your total revs ex-iPod I think was up about 10%, which is down for the last 3 quarters, where it's been tracking, kind of, 15-20%. Any thoughts on, if you didn't have the power constraints associated with G5, I mean would that have been basically in line with the past 3 quarters? Any kind of thoughts that can help us think about the non-iPod business?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, look, it would be impossible for me to predict what Q4 might have been had we not had constraints on the G5 processor. However, again, I couldn't have been happier with how the quarter turned out for us. We had great portable sales and we were very happy with our non-CPU sales in the Mac-based revenue. But we were constrained on G5 processors. Particularly, on the high-end ASP PowerMacs and the new iMac. And as I said in my prepared comments, we reduced channel inventory, so sell through exceeded sell in, and as a result, you know, we were very pleased with the underlying demand in the Mac business. Portables were up 44%. The eMac was up 19%. And where we saw the constraints, we saw declines. As an example, the flat panel iMac was down 50% year-over-year, and that impacted the revenue growth.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Uh-huh. Okay. Any thoughts on when -- you might have said this and I apologize if you did, but, you know, clearly, IBM continues to struggle, on giving you the processors that you need. My impression is that this is going to continue to be an issue through the quarter, just having tried to order a few systems. Is this -- you think you'll get total relief in Q -- in the March quarter on the processor side? Any thoughts on when supply might equal demand?  

TIM COOK: Keith, again, I'm very encouraged by the progress that we've made in this area, that IBM has made with Apple's help. In August, we shipped more G5 systems than we did in July. And in September, we shipped twice as many as the combined totals of July and August. And so, you know, that -- that leaves me very encouraged about being able to reach a supply-demand balance at a point during the quarter on every system that we ship with a G5 in it, with the possible exception of the PowerMac 2.5.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay.  

TIM COOK: And frankly, even on that unit, we predict that we will be able to have a significant improvement in the overall supply of that unit. But it still may be in constraint at the end of the quarter.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thank you, very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Keith. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to John Jares with Founders Funds.  

JOHN JARES, ANALYST, FOUNDERS FUND: Thank you. First of all, congratulations on a great quarter, you guys. And I was just wondering, if you guys could give us, maybe, some idea as to what you may have, you know, stored -- in store for us in terms of, you know, iPod promotions during the holidays? And then, number 2, I was wondering if you might care to comment on what a reasonable, say, market share of the CPU market, you know, would be for you guys to shoot for?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will take your second question, and let Tim address your first. We're not focused on market share, because we're really not participating in the low end of the desktop market, really at $800 and below, because we just don't think we can make a lot of money there, and we've chosen to put the R&D investment elsewhere. That being said, in the markets that we are participating in, we believe that we are growing at or above the market rate of growth, and we're really focused on managing growth to our top and bottom lines.  

TIM COOK: On the iPod, we're really not focused on promotion in the traditional sense of that word. We're focused on marketing, and, you know, you can see from the new campaign that just launched yesterday, with U2 in it, as Peter referenced earlier, that we've got some exciting things planned. And there's more to come on that one.  

JOHN JARES: Do you have anything going on with Best Buy? They had mentioned that they thought that MP3 would be a very substantial category this year. I think they said it is going to be a real category for the first time, and they seem to be very excited about it. And you indicated that, you know, Apple, obviously, is a very important part of that as well.  

TIM COOK: Yeah, Best Buy is a very important partner for us, and they are doing a fabulous job in selling the iPod.  

JOHN JARES: Great. Well, thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, John. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Rob Cihra with Fulcrum Global Partners.  

ROB CIHRA, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi. Thanks very much. Two questions, if I could. One, on retail, given that fiscal '04 is over now, can you give us any idea, or are you giving any idea what kind of retail openings we might see in fiscal '05, or are you going to wait 'til calendar '04 is over, where you hit your 100 and give us anything then? Or is it more of a play-it-by-ear now because you're focused much more on international than U.S.? And then I have a follow-up, if that's all right.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Rob, we're continuing to open stores at a very measured pace. And we want to open stores with an objective to them being profitable in their first year of operation. So our goal is really it put the right store in the right location, and with 4 store mat -- 4 store formats, now, we have more flexibility to do that. And as I indicated, we are wanting to have 100 stores open by the end of the calendar year, and provide you an update on the January call of what future store openings may be.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay. Great. And actually, Tim, I think it was, back an earlier question, had said that your 1.8-inch, disk drive availability for the iPod, and I think you had said the 1.8-inch drive availability had gotten better. I wasn't sure, I thought, did you mean the 1-inch, or are you actually constrained on the 1.8 and the 1-inch, and if you could just, sort of, maybe, clear up that, if possible.  

TIM COOK: We shipped more of -- more iPods and more iPod minis last quarter than the previous quarter. And so the supply of both are improving, and we're focused on a marked improvement in both again in Q1.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay. But do you still expect to be constrained on both?  

TIM COOK: Demand is very difficult to predict. And so I'm not -- my crystal ball is not working about where supply and demand might align.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay. Fair enough. Thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Could we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Howard Gleicher with Metropolitan West.  

HOWARD GLEICHER, ANALYST, METROPOLITAN WEST: Hi. Thank you, very much. You indicated that you generated about $400 million, organically, in cash this quarter, not including that 108 million from the employee stock purchases. That brings to close to a billion dollars, and I don't know the exact number, organically, for the year. Is that a sustainable level on an annual basis given current trends in your sales and margins? And my constant question, what use will you do -- will you use that, not only cash current but cash generating ability for? Thank you.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Howard, because of our very strong asset management with our cash conversion cycle, which by the way, this past quarter was a negative 41 days, up from 37 days in the year-ago quarter, we tend to throw off more cash on an operating basis than our earnings. And so I don't want to give you a forecast for all of next year, but we would continue to expect to have great asset management, and generate as much cash or more cash than operating earnings. In terms of what we're doing with the cash, we continue to maintain our cash balances for strategic flexibility, to invest in our business, or make acquisitions.  

HOWARD GLEICHER: And you won't consider even so little as offsetting the option dilution by repurchasing, just that many shares to keep your share count flat? It's been rising quite dramatically.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah, the -- a share buyback is discussed at the Board from time to time, and we have not been active in the last couple of years.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Howard. Could we have the next call, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest Research.  

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST RESEARCH: Yes. Thanks, good afternoon. I had a couple of follow-up questions, here, on the product side. You went over the numbers pretty quickly in the beginning. Are you giving any backlog detail or color on the backlog revenues for iMac and PowerMac that you left fourth quarter with? Excuse me, the previous quarter with?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, we -- we really don't specify what backlogs may have been. My only comment was that as regards to the new iMac, it was significant.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And how it relates to G5, a question, a follow-up question on G5 availability, what type of linearity of supply do you expect in -- for G5s in the upcoming quarter? Is there any type of linearity or any type of color you can give in terms of what you are expecting for flow of supply from IBM?  

TIM COOK: Yeah, we're not really forecasting at the month level publicly. However, what I would share with you is that the -- the thinking on the linearity is factored into our guidance that Peter referenced, that -- in his opening comments.  

BILL FEARNLEY: You had taken -- you had taken the time to give us the guidance of September versus August and July. You're not providing any guidance about October versus September or anything like that for the upcoming quarter?  

TIM COOK: The September and August is passed. And for the future, we're not giving an outlook on monthly availability of a particular product line.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And then one last question for you on servers, you can give any color on what happened with the servers for the quarter as part of -- part of what you saw for demand and that type of thing in the server market?  

TIM COOK: The supply and demand did balance on the server, and we were able to completely get out of the backlog that we had built up coming into the quarter.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. Thank you, very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Bill Shope with J.P. Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Okay. Great. Thanks. Can you give us the average wait time that you're seeing right now for an iPod mini in the U.S., and then potentially what you're see internationally? I'm sure it is much larger. And then second, this may be too difficult to answer, too early to answer, but now that the iPod, you know, product family has been around for a while now, do you have any indication or any read on what the average replacement cycle might look like?  

TIM COOK: Bill, on the average wait time, it varies significantly by channel and by store front. We've now expanded the iPod channel around the world to over 16,000 store front locations. And so with that many locations, you can be assured that there are stores out of a particular unit on any given day. And so it's very difficult to talk about what an average wait time might be, either to the U.S. or internationally because of that expanded channel.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And in terms of upgraders versus new purchasers, is sorry, I don't have that data, but I would tell that you in fiscal '04, we shipped 4.4 million iPods. We've shipped over 5.7 million to date. And I think that these -- this market is in its in fancy, and growing quickly, and as an example, I think Sony shipped close to 300 million Walkmans in the '80s and '90s.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. And then just one more quick question, given the success you've had with, you know, the HDD-based model for the iPod, do you believe there's still any opportunity in the lower-cost flash markets, or do you think that falling drive prices will eventually allow you to reach the lower-end price points with just an HDD-based device.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think there's a variety of opportunities in the iPod space, but I just can't comment on what we may do in the future.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Great. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Steve Lidberg with Pacific Crest Securities.  

STEVE LIDBERG, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Hi, guys. I was hoping, with regards to iPod, you could give us an idea what the mix is between U.S. units and international units.  

TIM COOK: That is not a mix that we give out, Steve.  

STEVE LIDBERG: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We're going next to Darcie Travels with Harris and Company.  

DARCIE TRAVELS, ANALYST, HARRIS AND COMPANY: Hello. Can you hear me?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.  

DARCIE TRAVELS: My question is related to -- given the strength that you've seen in your retail channel, do you have any metrics you can share with us on consumers that may be new to Apple or back to Apple, particularly as it relates to computer business?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We survey those metrics with our retail sales, and as I indicated earlier, the first-time PC buyers and new-to-Mac buyers, in terms of people that are buying in the stores has been ranging in about 45 to 50% of our sales.  

DARCIE TRAVELS: Are you seeing any trends there?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: In what sense?  

DARCIE TRAVELS: Has it been stable? Is it increasing?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The -- I'm very pleased by the new-to-Mac sales. That has been really very stable for a number of years in the mid to high 30% range. But it's the degradation that we've seen, the small one, has been in first-time PC purchasers. And I just think there're fewer of those. So overall, CPU and other sales are growing very strongly in our retail store, and quarter after quarter, we're selling more units to people that have never owned a Mac before.  

DARCIE TRAVELS: Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Darcie. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will take a follow-up question from Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS: Hi, sorry. Can you give me -- can you talk a little bit about your -- from a retail strategy standpoint, the -- you know, is there any need to expand into additional channel partners? At one point you had the Best Buy pilot in place. You know, when we go around, we see some iPods out, but, you know, not a very, I guess, good representation of some of your desktop line or something, or notebooks at some of the retailers. So I'm just curious, you know, CompUSA, Best Buy, some of those guys, if you look at focusing on them more, are you just happy with, you know, Apple retail stores direct and, sort of, we'll let the other ones be as they are?  

TIM COOK: Shannon, on iPod, we have -- we've continued to increase the number of store fronts carrying iPod, and it's now over 16,000, worldwide. That number is up from around 3,000 just, you know, several quarters ago, at the origin of the iPod. We're continually looking for partners within that group that might be a good place to expand Mac distribution. But I have nothing to report or announce today.  

SHANNON CROSS: But I guess I was -- so you're talking that that's on iPod, but in terms of matters, just, you're happy with the --  

TIM COOK: No what I'm saying --  

SHANNON CROSS: -- number of channel partners you have with specific to the desktop or the notebook line.  

TIM COOK: We continue to evaluate how many channels and store fronts we need for the Mac, and run pilots with different people to test what kind of results that we might get. And so we will continue to do those type of investigations and band distribution for the Mac if it makes sense to do.  

SHANNON CROSS: In, say, the last 2 to 3 quarters, have you expanded into additional chains that we may have missed?  

TIM COOK: In the United States, no. Internationally, we have done some of that, yes.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Shannon. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: And we'll take a follow-up question from Charles Wolf with Needham.  

CHARLES WOLF: Yes, I -- this is sort of similar to a previous question, but you mentioned that you did have a backlog of iPods exiting the quarter, and I'm curious as to whether that also included the classic in addition to the mini. And on the new store fronts, Tim, when you mentioned 16,000, I assume there are no HP store fronts included in that.  

TIM COOK: Yeah, so, on your first question, Charlie, the -- we had a significant backlog of both iPod and iPod mini at the end of the quarter. Your second question, the 16,000 -- the over 16,000 is Apple only. It does not include any channel partners that HP may be in that Apple is not in.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thanks a lot.  

TIM COOK: Yeah.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: And we'll take a follow-up question from Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest Research.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Yes, thanks. One follow-up question, here, on the hPod. You gave the breakdown for hPod at 6% this quarter. Do you have any color on what it's going to be in the upcoming quarter, and is this a number that you'll be providing on an ongoing basis? Thanks.  

TIM COOK: It is not a number that we would likely provide on an ongoing basis. I believe that based on conversations with HP, that the number of Apple iPods from HP that are sold in Q1 will be higher than the number that was sold in Q4.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, are there any additional questions?  

OPERATOR: No, ma'am. There are no further questions.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, again, for joining us today. A recording of today's call will be available for replay via telephone for 7 days beginning at 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. And the number for that replay is 719-457-0820. And the confirmation code is 835492. A replay of the audio webcast of this call will also be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today at  www.apple.com/investor, and will remain available for approximately 12 months. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570. And I am at 408-974-5420. Thanks again.  

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041027e0ad001e3
  


 HD
 Q3  2004 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,071 words
   PD
14 July 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss third quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Nancy Paxton, Senior Director-Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead ma'am.  

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR-IR AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Speaking today is Apple CFO, Peter Oppenheimer, and he'll be joined by EVP of Worldwide Sales and Operations, Tim Cook; and VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Whipfler, for the Q&A session with analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, restructuring, capitalized research & development expense, other income and expense, taxes, earnings per share, Apple's retail initiative, Apple's next generation iMac and manufacturing issues associated with the Power PC G5 microprocessor. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to pages 36 through 45 of Apple's latest form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2004. Please also note that any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's call should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, Apple's GAAP results. A reconciliation of any GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed will be posted on Apple's website at  www.Apple.com/investor. In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet. And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Peter Oppenheimer for introductory remarks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Thank you very much for joining us. We are exceptionally pleased with the results of the June quarter, which exceeded our guidance. Revenue of 2.014 billion was up 30% year-over-year and represented the highest Q3 revenue for Apple in 8 years. Net income was 61 million or 16 cents per diluted share. These GAAP results include an after-tax restructuring charge of 6 million, or 1 cent per diluted share, primarily related to finalizing the closing of our Sacramento manufacturing operations. Operating margin increased to 3.6% from 0.6% in the year-ago quarter. Excluding the restructuring charge, operating margin was 4.0%, demonstrating the leverage in Apple's financial model that can be achieved as revenue grows.  

First, let me talk about our Mac-based revenue, which consists of our Mac desktop and portable computers; the Mac OS X operating system software; our expanding line of consumer and professional application software, such as iLife and Final Cut Pro; and the support, accessory and peripheral products that surround these and other products.  

I am pleased to report that our Mac-based revenue grew 19% during the quarter, accounting for 58% of the company's total revenue growth for the quarter. We sold 876,000 Macs, which is the highest quarterly unit shipment in over 3 1/2 years and represents a 14% increase from the year-ago quarter; equivalent to IDC's unit growth forecast for the market as a whole. Our portables accounted for 53% of total Macs sold during the quarter, a new record. Both the iBook and the PowerBook set new quarterly records with sales of 240,000 and 220,000 units, respectively. Apple continues to be an industry leader in the move to notebooks.  

We sold 416,000 desktops during the quarter, or 47% of total Macs shipped; consisting of 173,000 Power Macs; 60,000 flat panel iMacs; and 183,000 eMacs. Our Power Mac G5 unit shipments and associated revenue and profits were constrained in the June quarter by a manufacturing problem at IBM that caused significant delays in their delivery of G5 processors, thus the delay in the shipment of our high-end dual 2.5 gigahertz Power Macs into July.  

Unfortunately, IBM's manufacturing problems will impact our September quarter as well. We expect to have shortages of our dual 1.8 gigahertz and dual 2.0 gigahertz models in July, though supply of these models should catch up in August. And we expect to have shortages of our high-end dual 2.5 gigahertz model throughout the quarter. IBM's manufacturing problems have also impacted our next generation iMac.  

We normally don't talk about unannounced products, but we feel you need to know about the current situation. The new iMac is based on a G5 processor. We could not secure the necessary supply of G5 processors to launch our new iMac on schedule, and as we indicated a few weeks ago, we now plan to announce and ship it in September. We are extremely unhappy with these events. We believe that IBM has placed enormous resources on improving the situation and, based on what they have told us, we expect the supply problems to be behind us by the beginning of Apple's fiscal Q1 '05. Ending channel inventory of total iMac -- or total Mac units remained within our target range of 4 to 5 weeks. Although we anticipate flat panel iMac inventory will be depleted in the next several weeks.  

Now, let me discuss our music-based revenue, which consists of the iPod and the iPod mini portable digital music players and their accessories and the iTunes online music service. Our music based revenue grew 162%. We had another phenomenal quarter for iPod sales, shipping a record 860,000 units; a 183% increase over last year. Continued strong demand for the iPod, combined with improved supply of the iPod mini and 13,000 retail distribution points worldwide, drove this growth. According to May, 2004 data, which is the latest available from NPD Tech World, the iPod has continued to gain market share and remains the number one selling MP3 player; counting all hard drive and flash-based memory players by a wide margin.  

The iTunes music store continues to be the leading online music service with more than a 70% share of legal downloads, based on the latest information from Neilsen Sound Scan. This week, the iTunes music store crossed the unprecedented milestone of 100 million legally downloaded songs in our iTunes music store in the U.K., France and Germany has become Europe's top online music store.  

Moving on to distribution, the Apple retail stores had another outstanding and profitable quarter. We opened two stores during the quarter, bringing the quarter end total to 80. Apple retail store revenue was 270 million. With an average of 79 stores opened during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was 3.4 million, up from 2.6 million in the year-ago quarter; a 31% increase. The retail stores also contributed 7 million in segment profit during the quarter, and 48 million in additional manufacturing margin. Traffic was very strong during the quarter, with 5.8 million people visiting our retail stores translating into 5.6 thousand visitors per store per week. This compares to 4.3 thousand visitors per store per week in the year-ago quarter.  

We are looking forward to opening two more international stores before the end of the calendar year. One in Osaka, Japan and the other on Regent Street in London. We now expect to exit the calendar year with 100 stores.  

Results from our U.S. education channel were positive. Overall, CPU units were up 4% year-over-year, which compares favorably to IDC's forecast of a 14% unit decline for the market. Revenue growth was even stronger at 16% over the year-ago quarter and resulted in our highest U.S. education channel revenue in three years. Higher education sales grew an impressive 40% year-over-year, the third consecutive quarter of 40% or better growth. Our K-12 business continues to be challenged by a weak funding environment; however, we managed to grow K-12 revenues by 3% year-over-year, and continued to have success with one-to-one initiatives.  

In terms of geographic performance, revenue in Europe was up 37% year-over-year, while revenue in the Americas, excluding the retail segment, was up 23%. Combining the Americas segment results with U.S. sales from the retail segment yields a year-over-year increase of 31%. Revenue in the Japan segment was up 2% year-over-year. Gross margin was 27.8%, flat with the prior quarter, and consistent with guidance. Excluding the pre-tax restructuring charge of 8 million, operating expense was 479 million, 9 million higher than expected primarily due to variable selling expenses associated with the higher-than-expected revenue and the accelerated launch of the European iTunes music store. OI&E was $13 million, 1 million better than guidance, primarily due to slightly higher than expected yields on our cash investments. The tax rate for the quarter was 28% as expected.  

In terms of the balance sheet, cash was 4.966 billion, up 372 million sequentially. The cash growth reflects continued strong asset management and contributions from operating income, as well as proceeds from employee stock option exercises, which were approximately 190 million excluding related tax benefits during the quarter. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were $38 million, including 20 million for our retail initiative.  

We were very busy with product introductions and refreshes. Recent product announcements include a new family of Power Mac G5's, featuring an all-dual processor lineup; Airport Express, the world's first 802.11 G mobile base station featuring AirTunes music networking software; and a new family of wide screen displays including the 30-inch Apple HD display. Additionally, we've announced plans to introduce the next generation iMac in September. We're incredibly proud of the innovation and ground-breaking new solutions generated by our R&D product pipeline and there are more to come.  

Looking ahead to the September quarter, I'd like to review the outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the September quarter, we are targeting revenue of about 2.1 billion and GAAP diluted earnings per share of about 16 to 17 cents, which includes approximately 5 million, or 1 cent per diluted share, of expected restructuring related to vacating some European sales office space. We expect gross margin to decline sequentially to about 27.0 to 27.25%, due to the constrained supply of microprocessors, air freight for the new iMac and a higher mix of iPods. I've discussed IBM's problems and how they're likely to impact the quarter and, based on their input, we believe we have appropriately taken into consideration the risk factors associated with the G5 processor in developing our guidance for Q4. However, we acknowledge that actual results could vary based on unforeseen problems.  

We expect OpEx to be about 490 million, including the 5 million restructuring charge. The projected OpEx does not include 5 million of capitalized costs related to the development of Mac OS X Tiger, which we publicly demonstrated at our developer's conference last month.  

We expect OI&E to be about 15 million and we expect the tax rate to be 28%. In conclusion, we are very pleased with our year-to-date results and based on Q4 guidance, we expect to complete fiscal 2004 with over 8 billion of revenue representing a 29% year-over-year growth. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. [Caller Instructions] We'll take as many questions as time permits. We'll take our first question from Richard Gardner with Smith Barney.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Thank you. Peter, it was interesting that the CPU strength in the quarter was largely from the pro lines rather than the K-12 or consumer line. You had a really nice quarter with PowerBook. Could you comment on why you think that that might be the case, aside from the iMac channel inventory drawdown? And maybe give a comment on demand in the consumer and K-12 segments given some of the controversy around those segments here recently? Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Rich, I will make a couple comments on the portables and then let Tim discuss the education environment. We had a very strong portable quarter. The PowerBooks were up 37% year-over-year, but the iBooks were also up 26% year-over-year. And I would just point out that we set a record -- a company record in terms of shipments for both the PowerBook and the iBook. Tim, do you want to talk about the --  

TIM COOK, EVP-WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Sure, Rich, in the education space we've now had several quarters in a row of significant growth in higher education. And frankly, this is a result of our strong product portfolio, including the Power Mac and the PowerBook and the iBook, or the whole portable family. And, as you probably know now, if you look through our fiscal first half, and that's the latest figures that we have from IDC; our market share in education has gone up over 2% from 12-4 to 14-8, and so we feel extremely good about those results. It's an indication to us that our coverage model is working, that our product portfolio is right, and that, you know, we have the team focused on the appropriate things. From a tax revenue point of view, K-12 is still difficult. We did see some positive signs toward the end of the fiscal year, which largely occurred in June, for a number of the states that indicate some turn; and that produced the 3% revenue growth that Peter talked about in his opening remarks.  

It's difficult to predict when tax revenues increase. You guys could predict that as good as we can. However, frankly, we are focused on growing in this environment, regardless of whether the market is growing or shrinking. We're very proud of our results there thus far.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And Rich, I would add on the consumer side, just using our growth in retail as a proxy, Ron had a fantastic quarter at 270 million, which was up 86% year-over-year.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Can I follow-up quickly?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Was there anything in the quarter that impacted revenued iPod shipments besides just the one-inch drive constraints that you've been experiencing here lately? For example, you know, any recall issues or anything like that?  

TIM COOK: There has been no recall issues, no quality issues, Rich, or anything like that. Obviously, the mini demand far exceeds the supply. Frankly speaking, the demand is staggering in the U.S. Most of the resellers and Apple retail locations were reporting selling out of the deliveries that we sent within hours or a few days of receipt. And, you know, the -- internationally, the order stream was opened up a week ago and the order stream that we've seen is unprecedented. So the demand of the mini is extremely, extremely strong.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Thank you, Tim.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Ben Reitzes with UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon, thank you. Could you just elaborate a little more on some of the issues going on with IBM and what -- I think you said that you think that in speaking with them, you have confidence that in the first fiscal quarter you'll see the products shipped and you feel capacity will be -- will be where it needs to be, or excuse me, supply. Could you just talk about what gave you confidence there? And what could go wrong? Or what -- just a little more color so that we know that that's going to be straightened out.  

TIM COOK: Hi, Ben. It's Tim.  

BEN REITZES: Hi, thanks.  

TIM COOK: Let me give you a little bit of the background here. Much of the issue at IBM is very consistent with what's happening across the broader industry including some of the issues at Intel that have been well reported. And this is basically the move from 130 to 90 nanometer technology. It's been much more difficult than most people estimated. And frankly, from us, what that resulted in was a mass loss of our wafer supply, and lower-than-anticipated yield. Now, from the discussions that we've had with them, which have been numerous, I very much believe that they've placed enormous resource, engineering-wise and executive-wise, on improving the situation; and given that, I believe that we can hit the numbers that Peter has talked about in the guidance. Obviously, we also, independently, assessed their plans, and probed them, and believe the numbers that they have passed to us.  

BEN REITZES: Any plans to procure an alternative supplier into the future at some point?  

TIM COOK: You know, it is not commercially feasible or reasonable to think about a --  

BEN REITZES: Not near term.  

TIM COOK: Another entire company building the G5 if that's what you mean.  

BEN REITZES: No, not in the near term. Okay. And then with regard to margin hit, is there anything you can quantify with regard to some of the issues as to what kind of hits are -- Peter, what's going against margins in the quarter that could potentially get better into the next, with, you know, I understand if you don't want to give guidance going in --  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Right, and I'm not going to get into, you know, providing guidance for Q1, but we've provided guidance for Q4 that we would see our gross margins at about 27.0 to 27.25. Had we not had the microprocessor constraints or the premium air freight on the flat panel, our gross margin would have been much closer to 27.5%.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Yeah. Thanks, Ben. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Steve Milunovich with Merrill Lynch.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. To continue on the Power PC issue, there's been some suggestion on the web that you have a heating issue with the iMac as well. Are you saying that that's not at all the problem? It's purely availability of microprocessors?  

TIM COOK: Steve, the processor is the most critical factor.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. And are you basically using the same processor that IBM's now going to be using in its new UNIX line? So are you, in effect, going to be competing with IBM's internal needs and is that incorporated into your forecast?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We believe that, based on what IBM has told us, and our own independent assessment of their plans, that we can achieve our guidance.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. On the iPod side, you did have some mini availability, I don't know if you're willing to talk about what the mix of iPods is at this point? Also wondering if you could just reiterate the timing of catching up to demand with the mini, what the availability of HP's product is likely to be, and if you'd be willing to speculate that you'll break a million units in this quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me start with that, and then Tim can add to that. And I will take your last question and let Tim discuss mini supply and HP. We're not going to provide specific guidance on our iPod shipments, but we do anticipate them being up sequentially.  

TIM COOK: Steve, on supply on the mini, as I had talked about in the last call last quarter, we still expect the supply this quarter to be significantly higher than it was in our last Q3, or last quarter. And in fact, our view today is even better than it was then, in terms of the amount that we can increase it. And so I'm feeling good about the supply. However, the demand, as I had talked about with Ben earlier, the demand in the U.S. is staggering. And on top of that, the orders internationally as we've opened this thing up for our launch later this month, those orders are unprecedented. And so given that, it's very difficult to predict when supply and demand will balance.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: So it sounds like the good news is you got more supply, but demand keeps moving ahead of your previous plan, so you're not willing to suggest that you will necessarily catch up in the September quarter?  

TIM COOK: That's correct.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. And finally, as least relative to my expectation, software revenues were above what I was looking for, peripherals were below. Any particular strength or weakness in those areas you can allude to?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, Steve, the decline that you're seeing in the peripherals was largely related to our transition of our display line that we did right at the end of our quarter.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Can we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Michelle Gutierrez with Schwab Soundview.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ, ANALYST, SCHWAB SOUNDVIEW: Hi, congratulations on the quarter. I want to ask about iTunes and an update given you've announced the 100 millionth song here and the profitability in that business model, and along with the new pricing that's available in the European markets, if there's an update there, and a change in terms of profitability in that business?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Thanks for the good wishes on the quarter, Michelle. The iTunes music store in our June quarter made a small profit. And that includes both our sales in the U.S. and Europe. Going forward, our profitability will vary on pricing, and volume, and what we might do to grow the business. And we were just thrilled with the sales this quarter crossing not only 100 million songs here in the U.S.; but our great start in Europe, where we are the, by far, leading music store in the U.K., France, and Germany.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: Okay. Great. And then just transitioning that into the iPod international launch, later this month, in July. Given the unprecedented demand in the U.S., are you going to be able to manage that launch? Or will that, you know, you won't be able to preannounce a pushout, but how do you feel about supplying that launch?  

TIM COOK: We will conduct the launch on July 24, and we have set aside some amount of the July supply in order to ship internationally, but given the order that I've seen, it's clear that it will not come close to satisfying the number of people that want them.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: Okay. And then just shifting gears a little bit, the huge strength that you saw in the PowerBook, 40% growth quarter-to-quarter, that's typically not typical seasonality, you know. I didn't hear why exactly you saw that particular strength in PowerBook, and in iBook and whether you continue to see that going forward. Thank you very much.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. The -- you know, the world is going more mobile and Apple is a leader in that. We have a very competitive and feature-rich line of iBooks and PowerBooks which we have recently refreshed; and both PowerBooks and iBooks are doing very well in education and our consumer and business markets as well.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: Do you see that going forward as well?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're not going to provide specific unit guidance but, yes, we are very pleased with our portable line; how it's doing, and its prospects for the future.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Michelle. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Charles Wolf with Needham & Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Yes, I think Steve asked the question, but it wasn't answered. Is the HP launch of the HP pod still on target?  

TIM COOK: Yes, Charlie, sorry, I didn't answer that, and it wasn't because I was doing that intentionally. HP will ship this summer, as we had indicated in last quarter's call.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thank you. I have a second question. I don't know if you can answer it. But I was wondering if you could share with us, possibly, some of the shopping habits of the people who come to the iTunes music store. Possibly the total number that have come, stuff like that, if you have that information and can share it?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Charlie, we -- of course we have it but for competitive reasons, we don't want to do that. I would just say that we couldn't be happier with the success that we're having in all of our markets with the music store. Our traffic is up. We're pleased with the sales. And we're just going to keep making our store and our iPods better and better.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next with Joel Wagonfeld with First Albany Capital.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY CAPITAL: Thank you, nice quarter. I had a question on products. I was wondering if you had any granularity in terms of when during September you expect to ship the iMac, whether Apple products will be in the Office Depot stores or just online on their site, and also if you expect any cannibalization of the white iPods once the minis do become fully available or is there sufficient demand for the bigger capacity devices?  

TIM COOK: On Office Depot, we have authorized Office Depot to sell on their online store, and we've done that because of their emphasis in the small and medium business market. We do not have any plan to extend that to their retail stores, or to put product into their retail stores. On the mini cannibalization, frankly, we don't know. We've never been in a position where we have had significant amount of mini and white iPods in any location for any length of time so we don't know the answer to that.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: And in terms of when in September?  

TIM COOK: We plan to announce and ship in September and we're not being more specific on the timing in September.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Okay. Could I follow-up? Just in terms of the granularity on the margins this quarter, which the gross margin was pretty strong, was that all due to better mix? You made a couple of comments I think on air freight that I didn't quite catch, if you could just repeat those for me?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, Joel, the comments that I made regarding air freight related to Q4.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: That's what I thought.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Right. Our Q3 gross margin came in at 27.8%, as we guided to in the third quarter.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: And so despite the -- so that was all basically mix, the Power Mac offsetting the iPod?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We saw a little bit more favorable commodity environment than we had thought, which helped us offset the delay of the 2.5 gigahertz Power Mac in the third quarter.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Got it. Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest Research.  

BILL FEARNLEY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST RESEARCH: Yes, good afternoon. A couple of questions on the iMac. Is the only issue the chips, are there any other gating issues on other component or plastics for that product?  

TIM COOK: Bill, the processor is the most critical factor.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And on Japan, performance versus expectations given the economic environment and your new stores there, could you give additional color on what's happening in Japan specifically?  

TIM COOK: Yes, I will. When you include the retail story that we have in Japan, in the Japan geographic results, you'll see -- you'd see that our revenue year-over-year increased 8% in the quarter. Now, compared to the previous quarter, we declined 17%, looking at the same comparable; and so we did better on a sequential basis but, frankly, Japan is our weakest performing geo. We're not happy. We've made a number of changes. We have a number of initiatives underway. And you know, it's a very key market for us, and we must improve there.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Is Quark still holding you back there?  

TIM COOK: Quark, we thought would ship last quarter, but did not and, now, my understanding is they will ship in the early part of this one.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And one last follow-up if I could. On air freight expenses coming up, what exactly are you air freighting in the upcoming quarter? What products?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Bill, it's primarily the new iMac.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Thank you. A couple of questions on your ASP trends. On the iMac you had a pretty substantial drop in ASP. Is that just because of the -- a mix shift towards eMac? And then the same kind of question on the iPod. It looks like you had a 290 ASP which, would that suggest you're selling mainly the low end of the white and the minis? And I actually had one other question on education. You said 3% for the K-12. What was the total education if you put in the higher ed as well?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay, I will -- let me start with your ASP questions. So the iMac ASP declined to $967 in our third quarter from $1049 in the year-ago quarter. That ASP decline related to our shipping far fewer flat panel iMacs in the quarter. The iPod ASP decline you referred to is really primarily is the mix issue between minis and the white iPods. And your education question, was that unit -- a unit question or revenue?  

KEVIN HUNT: I think you said revenue, you said was 3% for K-12, if I wasn't mistaken, and I just wondered if you had the total education number?  

TIM COOK: Yes, Kevin, the K-12 is 3% year-over-year, the higher ed is 40% year-over-year and the total education for the U.S. is 16% up year-over-year.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay, thanks.  

TIM COOK: And I would just remind you that IDC's last forecasted the total ed market is shrinking in the double digits.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Keith Bachman with Banc of America Securities.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, thanks very much. I had a couple. First, the share count was higher, at least, than I had forecasted. Was that just because of the stock price or was there something else going on there? Was there some issuance there?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Gary, would you like to take that?  

GARY WHIPFLER, VP AND CORPORATE TREASURER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Yes, actually, most of that is the average share price going up.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. And then on the AirPort Express, I know it's just recently out, but have you had any expectations or any kind of indications on how that will track? And then is that in the other category, the new line item that you had, other music products?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, the AirPort Express is in the peripheral and other hardware category.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay.  

TIM COOK: But just to clarify the AirPort Express did not ship in Q3 and therefore, it is not in the Q3 results.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Yeah, no, I was just referring -- I think it just started shipping, right?  

TIM COOK: Yes. We've now taken over 80,000 orders. We just began to ship -- we're thrilled with the market reception of it. And, you know, the -- it's gotten great, great reviews and we're very happy that it is shipping.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Is that a global ship? Or is it U.S. ship?  

TIM COOK: The 80,000 units that I'm quoting is global. The first units we're shipping to the U.S., but internationally we're shipping in the next few days as well.  

KEITH BACHMAN: That was more of my question, is it a U.S.-based product?  

TIM COOK: No, it's a worldwide product.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Great. And then on the iPod for Hewlett Packard, is there any -- do you have any channel restrictions on that to try to manage the channel conflict either by geo or by any other supply source? Is there any kind of channel restrictions associated with HP?  

TIM COOK: No, HP and Apple independently conclude who to sell to.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. So no restrictions at all, even by geo?  

TIM COOK: None.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Okay. Thanks very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Rob Cihra with Fulcrum Global Partners.  

ROB CIHRA, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi, thanks very much. Actually a couple of questions. I am not sure if you want to answer, but I'll try anyway. One, I think, was already asked which was if you felt like giving the mix of minis within the iPod in the June quarter. Secondly, if you are willing to quantify at all the amount of fiscal fourth quarter hit by the new iMac delay beyond the guidance you've already given?  

And then thinking that maybe you won't answer either of those, I have one more which was just to do with the Power Mac. The softness that we've seen, I know you went through the details in terms of the processor problems hurting that availability, that sort of thing. But it seems to a certain extent that every quarter, maybe there is a little bit of a reason why those aren't as strong as they might otherwise have been expected to be, whether it's processors, channel, mix shift, or channel inventory shift, that sort of thing. Is that sort of 200,000 or so per quarter bogey that you had once talked about, do you think maybe that's history and maybe we should never think of a number that high for the Power Mac? Or is it just the fact that with the processor delays you really still can't be sure? Thanks very much.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Rob, as you suspected I am not going to answer your first two questions. As relates to your Power Mac question, you know, the world is really going more mobile. Our portable sales are growing very, very quickly. And I would say that we are focused on maximizing our total pro sales. Would like to see them in the range of 400,000. This past quarter we did 393,000. I would say, though, that when we begin to ship the new iMac, which will be based on a G5, in future quarters some customers may opt to buy that.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay. And so you're just looking at more as an overall pro number rather than maybe the desktops. Do you think you may be losing some to the notebook side?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No our ASPs and margins are strong on the PowerBook and, quite honestly, we're indifferent whether somebody wants to buy a G5 desktop or a PowerBook.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay. Great, thanks very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Rob. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Howard Glycier with Metropolitan West.  

HOWARD GLYCIER, ANALYST, METROPOLITAN WEST: Hi, thanks very much. I just have a follow-up on an earlier question regarding the share count. I believe, even adjusting for the increased stock price, there was issuance of stock. You mentioned that $190 million was received due to stock option exercise. You have $12.65 in net cash; no debt; you're generating, in my estimation, well in excess, I don't know exactly how much, about $1 dollar a share in cash a year. Why do you allow the share creep? Why don't you, at the very least, repurchase option -- option exercise shares, and even better, repurchase significantly more shares as you have the cash available? Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Howard, it -- at this point, we have opted to maintain our cash for flexibility to invest in our business and for possible acquisitions. And from time to time, the board can consider a buyback program.  

GARY WHIPFLER: And Howard, this is Gary. Just as a follow-up to your comment, yes there was actually -- there was stock option exercises. When we look at the treasury stock method, which factors in average share price and employee stock option exercises, we got to 392 million shares. Looking at internal assumptions and going forward, we would think that that number might be closer to 400 million next quarter.  

HOWARD GLYCIER: And you couldn't entertain the notion of at least keeping the share count flat? I understand the flexibility that you're trying to maintain, but you're diluting existing shareholders by not at least keeping that share count flat.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah, Howard, you know, this is a board level decision that gets discussed from time to time. And while we do have an authorized buyback program, which has about $300 million remaining, we have not been active in a couple of years.  

HOWARD GLYCIER: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Howard. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Andy Neff with Bear Stearns.  

BILL HAND, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Yes, thanks. This is Bill Hand for Andy Neff. Can you comment at all on component pricing trends?  

TIM COOK: Sure, this is Tim. We saw declines in memory, LCDs and storage during the quarter, particularly the last part of the quarter that we just finished, and we expect that those will continue in the near term. The other commodities, we believe, will continue to follow historical take-down rates.  

BILL HAND: Great. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Good afternoon. A couple of questions here. Can you give us an idea of how many weeks of iMac shipments are in your expectations that you've given us today?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Are you referring to the --  

SHANNON CROSS: To the new iMac?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, Shannon, we're not going to provide specific guidance on -- or the components of any of our specific products within our guidance.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And but I -- can we -- can you tell us if you would assume sort of full channel fill will be able to be accomplished by the end of September or if that will stretch over into your fiscal first quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Again, Shannon, I don't want to get into what we may or may not ship with individual products in the quarter.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. I think you can answer these ones. How many Xserves were in your Power Mac number? Because I know last quarter it was constrained. I would assume it was still somewhat constrained by IBM shortages during this quarter.  

TIM COOK: We did about 13,000, which was a record for us, and we left the quarter with some backlog, due to late deliveries of processors. We've sent, subsequently to that -- this quarter, we have cleared most of that backlog and are now in normal kind of shipping lead times on the Xserve.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. So we can expect a little bit extra this quarter but not much, from normalized levels?  

TIM COOK: We don't make product line estimates.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And can you talk a little bit about the supply of micro drives for the iPod minis? You know, thoughts about additional providers, and obviously, you know, it looks like you're going to be constrained through the end of the year. So what other options are out there? Or is it, you know, -- is there any other option out there at this point?  

TIM COOK: I'll just say that we will do what is necessary to increase the supply to try to get closer to the demand.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And just one final question, in terms of the air freight costs, they'll be in this quarter, I think -- I think -- and maybe Ben asked, and just -- you said you are not going to comment on fiscal first quarter. But just -- just curious if, you know, assuming the delays are there, we could figure that air freight is basically for channel fill, and things will be fine going forward?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Shannon, I'm just not at this point going to get into our views on Q1.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thanks, guys.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to John McPeek with Seminole Capital Partners.  

JOHN MCPEEK, ANALYST, SEMINOLE CAPITAL PARTNERS: Thank you. I just have a follow-up on the share count. The annualized rate in the just-reported quarter, is sort of 15%, and the guidance you gave for September does drop down to 8%. I mean should we think about shares going up about 8% a year, sort of going forward? And then I just have a follow-up.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry, I did not understand the question. Could you ask that again?  

JOHN MCPEEK: Should we think about the share count, the fully diluted share count going up at about 8% per year at Apple?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I don't want to try and provide a forecast for next fiscal year, but as Gary indicated, for our fourth quarter, -- for the fourth quarter share count, we would expect that to be about 400 million.  

JOHN MCPEEK: Okay. All right. And then I just have a question on iPod to CPU conversion. You guys are, you know, characterizing the demand for the iPods as staggering. It sounds like, just anecdotally, from talking to people I know that some people that buy iPods are buying CPUs and that's part of your strategy. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about what you're seeing there.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We -- I'll make a few comments and then Tim can add on if he likes. We were really happy with our CPU shipments this quarter, again up 14% year-over-year. It was the best CPU quarter that we had had in 3 1/2 years. We are seeing, still in Ron's stores, that about 50% of the computers he is selling are to people that have either never owned a Mac or are coming back to the platform; and he would tell you that he thinks one of the biggest drivers of people coming into the stores and buying are people that have had a great experience using an iPod on the windows platform.  

TIM COOK: Based on some outside surveys, our share of the freshman incoming class in a lot of higher ed institutions is increasing. And you know, one of the things that we would attribute that to is the iPod. And so I would agree that, anecdotally, there's a lot of good stories out there and, frankly, we are really pleased with the 19% revenue growth in the Mac-related business.  

JOHN MCPEEK: All right. Great. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, John. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Bill Shope with J.P. Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Thanks. Could you comment on whether or not you're -- you'll any potential loss in shelf place from the iMac delay and are you going to have to offer any special incentives to your channel partners given the late quarter launch? And then a semi-related question, given the persistent delays in the G5 do you think -- are you going to be able to get any price concessions from IBM because of these delays or is it still the normal pricing pattern that you had planned previously?  

TIM COOK: On the shelf space question with the iMac, we typically have not had an issue getting our channel partners to carry new products, because they're very excited about the sales opportunity in those, and I do not anticipate having that issue this time. On the G5 concessions from IBM, I'd rather not comment on that.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will take a follow-up from Bill Fearnley with FTN Midwest Research.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Yes. I had a quick question on the Apple stores and preliminary metrics you might be seeing on traction in the SMB market given your recent seminar activities?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Ron, I believe that his SMB sales in the June quarter were about 13% and continues to run many seminars and programs in the store to reach out into the community to SMB, but also to education as well.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Okay. And one last follow-up on channels. Do you folks provide any update on the Best Buy pilot, formally?  

TIM COOK: We continue to do very great business with Best Buy in the iPod space, but the companies have jointly concluded not to pursue the CPU space at this time.  

BILL FEARNLEY: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ben Reitzes with UBS.  

BEN REITZES: Yeah, a couple of follow-ups just, you've had -- I've seen this $200 promo for -- or $200 off for a PowerBook and iPod together. I was wondering, I don't think that had any impact in the quarter, did it? And then how are the expectations for that for back to school? Is that any indication that that would take off with the iPod promotion? And then the other is with regard to Europe, how do you think sales there play out sequentially into what could be a seasonally slow period; but you got the iTunes up and running there in some big countries and how does your momentum look there?  

TIM COOK: On the $200 promo, we started that in Q4, not in Q3. So we just put that underway, and so that will be in this quarter's results. We did run the same promotion last year at back to school time, as well. This promotion is exclusively geared toward education individuals, so incoming students, primarily at higher ed. And it was -- it was a significant success last year, and so we wanted to repeat that this year, in a period of time where iPod clearly has even more momentum than it did last year. On Europe, we had a great, great quarter in Europe, both in unit and revenue terms that we just finished. We don't provide forecasts at the geo level in terms of going forward, but I would just say that our business in Germany and the U.K. from a revenue growth perspective was very, very good last quarter.  

BEN REITZES: How would you characterize their take-up of iPod versus the U.S.'s and maybe in different stages -- of development?  

TIM COOK: You can clearly see that as the music store launched the iPod sales begin to move with it. And so there is a definite correlation in there -- from an awareness point of view, and people then getting the total solution.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Keith Bachman with Banc of America Securities. Mr. Bachman, your phone line is open. Please go ahead.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Yeah, thanks. Hi. A couple of follow-ups. On the Circuit City, just so I'm clear, does that mean you're pulling your CPU business from their website as well? I'm sorry, Best Buy. Best Buy.  

TIM COOK: We do not plan to have a CPU relationship with Best Buy at this time.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, so it's on the website and at the store-related activities.  

TIM COOK: Correct.  

KEITH BACHMAN: And then if I separated out your business in terms of the various pockets going from -- really trying to focus on the medium and large business, how much would you say medium and large enterprises represent of your total revenue pie?  

TIM COOK: Medium and large business in the last numbers that we had was a single-digit kind of number, 9% or so.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. In terms of your total revenue, large business represents, medium to large business represents largely 10% of your revenues?  

TIM COOK: Yes, and that's an internal estimate.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Thanks very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Keith. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Yes, we will go to Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS: Hi, I just wanted to follow-up on the channel strategy and Best Buy question. Can you give us an idea of what the issues may have been between yourself and Best Buy? And if there are any implications for your ability to expand your channel strategy on the retail side going forward?  

TIM COOK: Shannon we try a lot of different things and pilot a lot of different things, so I wouldn't say that there were any issues. I would say both of us ran a pilot and at this time we concluded to continue this great relationship that we have on iPod, and we concluded to not expand it on the CPU side.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And with regard to iPods, have you had any frustrations or issues with your channel partners given the supply constraints and the fact that you're running, I would assume, a significant amount of the iPods direct as opposed to going to other channels?  

TIM COOK: We have actually expanded the number of store locations around the world that are selling iPod over the last quarter, and it is now over 13,000. And so, frankly, we have more people that want to sell it than we have supply for it just now.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And the 13,000, are those, I would assume, a significant portion of those have just started to sell the iPod -- or will actually start to sell the iPod meaning at the end of this year, or this month, given the launch in Europe?  

TIM COOK: Going into last quarter, we had right at 12, and so we added about 1,300, 1,400 or so store locations across the last 90 days. And have a, you know, another list of people who would like to sell it that we're currently looking at.  

SHANNON CROSS: Great, thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. A recording of today's call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days beginning at 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today. The number for the replay is 719-457-0820 and the confirmation code is 439123. A replay of the audio webcast of this call will also be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today at  www.Apple.com/Investor and will remain available for approximately 12 months. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570, and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040728e07e0012x
  


 HD
 Q2  2004 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,685 words
   PD
14 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss second quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to the Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance, Miss Nancy Paxton. Please go ahead, ma'am.  

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR & CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Speaking today are Apple's CFO, Fred Anderson and SVP of Finance Peter Oppenheimer. And they will be joined by EVP of Sales and Operations,Tim Cook, as well as VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Wistler [ph] for the Q&A session with analysts.  

   TD
Please note that some of the information you'll hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, executive compensation, restructuring expense, other income and expense, taxes, Apple's retail initiatives, capital expenditures and earnings per share. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to pages 30 through 39 of Apple's latest Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 27, 2003.  

Please also note that should non-GAAP financial measures be included in today's call, such information should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. While we don't anticipate providing non-GAAP measures other than those included in the earnings press release, should we provide others a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP measures will be posted on Apple's website at  www.apple.com/investor.  

In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet.  

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Fred Anderson for introductory remarks.  

FRED ANDERSON, EVP & CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. We are exceptionally pleased with the results of the March quarter for a number of reasons. Apple achieved very strong year-over-year revenue growth of 29% for the quarter and 33% for the first half of the fiscal year. This revenue growth is being driven by a much more diversified portfolio of hardware, software and service products than we have delivered in the past. As well as expanded distribution through the channel and our on-line and retail stores. More importantly, our results demonstrate operating margin expansion, excluding restructuring charges, operating margin was 3.2% for the March quarter and 3.5% for the first half of the fiscal year, demonstrating the leverage in Apple's financial model that we can achieve as we grow revenue. It is clear that the investments that we have made over the past few years in research and development and in our retail initiative are paying off.  

As most of you know, I will be retiring as Apple's CFO on June 1st. It has been a real privilege for me to be Apple's CFO over the past eight years and I look forward to staying involved with Apple after my retirement. Peter Oppenheimer, who has done an outstanding job as Apple's Corporate Controller will be taking over as CFO and I'd like to turn the call over to him now for more details on the second-quarter results.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, SVP, FINANCE & CONTROLLER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Fred. As Fred mentioned, revenue of $1.909 billion was up 29% year-over-year. This represents our third consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth in our strongest March quarter in four years. Net income was $46 million or 12 cents per diluted share. These GAAP results include an after-tax restructuring charge of $7 million or 2 cents per diluted share for severance costs related to the closing of our Sacramento manufacturing operation and reductions in sales and marketing staff.  

We sold over 749,000 Macintosh units and 807,000 iPods during the quarter, representing a 5% increase in CPU units and more than 10 times the number of iPods shipped in the year-ago quarter. CPU revenue was up 6% while iPod revenue was up over 750%. In Q2, our 29% revenue growth was driven by our diversified portfolio of products, with iPod contributing about half the growth and all other products and services contributing the balance. Panther continued to sell well in its second quarter and we were very pleased with the reception of iLife '04 in its first quarter.  

Ending channel inventory units declined by 10% and remained within our target range of four to five weeks. The net decline in inventory was attributable to the PowerBook and the Power Mac product families. In terms of products, portables represented 48% of all Macintosh systems sold during the quarter, led by the iBook at 201,000 units and PowerBook at 157,000 units. Power Mac shipments were 174,000 units and iMac shipments were 217,000 units.  

There were two factors that impacted the number of Power Macs shipped. First, we reduced the Power Mac channel inventory so reported units sell-in was less than sell-through. Second, we were delayed in shipping the Xserve G5 until the last week of the quarter and exited March with most of the quarter's orders still in backlog. We had a phenomenal quarter for iPods, shipping a record 807,000 units. Exceeding the prior holiday quarter record of 733,000 units.  

Continued momentum of the iPod combined with the introduction of the iPod mini in the U.S. and retail distribution points now in excess of 12,000 worldwide, drove the healthy 10% sequential increase. Apple moved the worldwide availability of iPod mini to July due to the strong demand in the U.S. that far exceeded the total plant supply through the end of June.  

IPod remains the number one selling MP3 player according to the latest data available from NPD Tech World. IPod and the iTunes Music Store continued to distinguish themselves from the competition and have market-leading positions. We expect our strong momentum to continue as we catch up with iPod mini demand and as HP launches their digital music player this summer.  

The Apple retail stores continue to deliver outstanding results. We opened five stores during the quarter, including the San Francisco flagship store, bringing the quarter-end total to 78. Apple retail store revenue was $266 million, almost double the level of the year-ago quarter and only $7 million below the December quarter. With an average of 75 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was $3.5 million, up from $2.6 million in the year-ago quarter. The retail stores also contributed $5 million in segment profit during the quarter and $45 million in additional manufacturing margin.  

Traffic was very strong during the quarter with 5.7 million people visiting our retail stores, translating into 5.8 thousand visitors per store per week. This compares to 6,000 visitors per store per week in the December quarter and 4.4 thousand visitors per store per week in the year-ago quarter. We plan to continue to add stores that can achieve strong sales and profitability during our first year of operation. We expect to open an additional 10 stores during the balance of fiscal '04 and end the fiscal year with approximately 88 stores. We are also very excited to announce the expected opening of our store in London before the end of the calendar year.  

Results from our U.S. education channel were particularly encouraging. Overall, CPU units grew 10% year-over-year which was over three times the latest IDC market growth estimate. Revenue was even more impressive at 18% year-over-year growth. Higher education drove the growth with over 40% year-over-year revenue growth for the second quarter in a row. These results give us reason to be optimistic as we head into the back-to-school season later this year.  

Our K to 12 business was relatively flat year-over-year as some districts continue to be challenged by budget constraints. We did see increases in the number of one-to-one implementations during the quarter versus last year, which drove a marked increase in iBook sales. We continue to believe that our focus on student achievement and learning outcomes positions Apple uniquely in this market.  

In terms of geographic performance, revenue in Europe was up 33% year-over-year while revenue in the Americas excluding the retail segment was up 29%. Combining the America segment results with U.S. sales from the retail segment yields a year-over-year increase of 39%. Revenue in Japan segment was down 21% year-over-year.  

Gross margin was 27.8%, up 110 basis points from the prior quarter and slightly exceeding our guidance of 27.5%. The sequential increase in gross margin was a function of a better commodity pricing environment and more typical warranty expense and product transitions relative to Q1. Excluding the restructuring charge of $10 million, OPEX was $468 million, $8 million higher than expected primarily due to variable selling expenses associated with higher than expected revenue.  

On March 24th, Apple's Board of Directors granted restricted stock units to select members of the Company's senior management, excluding the CEO. The Board believes that basing a majority of executives' pay on equity is the best way to align management's interest with shareholders' interests. The restricted stock units will vest over four years. The Board views these RSUs as an important means of retaining key executives and does not anticipate making additional grants to these executives during their four-year time frame.  

Like restricted stock, the value of these RSUs must be amortized through the income statement and will add an additional $3.8 million in compensation expense per quarter going forward until fully vested. In addition, over the next two years, we will continue to recognize quarterly amortization expense of approximately $6.25 million related to their restricted stock previously granted to the CEO.  

OME, was $12 million, $2 million better than guidance, primarily due to higher than expected interest and dividend income. The tax rate for the quarter was 28% as expected. In terms of the balance sheet, cash was $4.594 billion, down just $197 million sequentially despite the $300 million senior debt retirement on February 17th that has left us debt-free. The strong cash profile reflects continued strong asset management and contributions from operating income. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were $35 million, including $20 million for our retail initiative.  

Looking ahead to the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the June quarter, we expect our fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year double-digit growth in both revenue and earnings. We are targeting revenue at about $1.925 billion. We expect GAAP diluted earnings per share of 12 to 13 cents, which includes approximately $10 million or 2 cents per diluted share in additional expected restructuring charges, primarily related to finalizing the closing of our Sacramento manufacturing operation.  

We expect gross margin to be relatively flat sequentially at about 28%. We expect OPEX to be about $480 million, including the previously mentioned $10 million restructuring charge and $10 million in executive compensation amortization. We expect OME to be about $12 million and we expect the tax rate to be 28%. Lastly, we expect fiscal '04 capital expenditures to be about $190 million, including $110 million associated with the retail initiative.  

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. If you care to ask a question, please signal by pressing the star key followed by the digit one on your touch-tone telephone. If you are using a speaker phone, please make sure that your mute function is turned off to ensure that your equipment can reach our signal. We will come to you in the order that you signal and will take as many questions as time permits. Again that is star one to ask a question on today's call. And we'll pause for just a moment to assemble our roster. And we'll take our first question from Steve Milunovich with Merrill Lynch.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH, MERRILL LYNCH: Great, thank you very much. Two topics. First of all, could you talk about distribution and you mentioned the on-line effort and so forth, I don't know if you can talk about how much success you feel you're having outside the stores both on-line and in other retail centers. And apparently you had a pilot with Best Buy going on which may have been pulled back, I wonder if you can comment on that. And second on the iPod side, can you talk about the gross margin on iPod and where it is today and if you still expect it's going to be coming down to 20%.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. I will address a little bit of your on-line and direct questions and take the iPod gross margin and leave Best Buy and some of the other distribution topics to Tim. Let me start with the iPod gross margin. As we indicated last quarter, the iPod gross margin was about our corporate average of 27%. This quarter it was about 23% as we began to shift the iPod mini and we still anticipate the gross margin being about 20% as we more fully ramp the iPod mini and begin to ship units to HP.  

In terms of on-line, we continue to do extremely well there. We're up very strong year-over-year, as well as all of our direct markets. Our direct sales in the quarter were 42% of total sales, and we defined that as sales to U.S. education, on-line and through our retail stores and that compares to 35% in the year-ago quarter. Tim?  

TIM COOK, EVP, WORLDWIDE SALES AND OPERATIONS, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Steve, on your question on distribution, we're continuing to expand the number of places that we have iPods. From the beginning of Q1 to the beginning of last October we've now raised that from 8,000 to 12,000 so we've increased it by 50%. About 80% of that expansion was outside the U.S. because we felt we fundamentally did not have enough spots. I would tell you that we're continuing to look for more quality channels and anticipate growing that more as we step through the year. And so on Best Buy in particular, Best Buy continues to be a very key iPod channel for us. They also continue to sell CPUs in some number of the stores. The pilot that you referenced had run its natural course and so at this point we're analyzing the data to conclude what to do moving forward.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Do you have any comment on future expected sales for iPod and do you have any evidence or expect to see the halo affect of the iPod success turn into more PC business.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're not going to provide guidance for future iPod shipments except to say in the third quarter we expect to be very constrained and hope to catch up a balance supply and demand in the fourth quarter. We are hearing anecdotal stories all the time, both in our retail stores and through the channel, where people have -- Windows users have purchased an iPod, used it, the music store and have come in and, either switched to the Mac or added a Mac to their computers at home.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Yes, ma'am. That comes from Joel Wagonfeld with First Albany.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, FIRST ALBANY: Thanks very much. I was wondering if you could comment a little bit further on the Power Mac volumes, they are a little bit below what you had stated was your goal and I think what myself and others had expected. You mentioned some inventory reduction but you had done that last quarter and you had also mentioned last quarter that you intended to be relatively aggressive in terms of price to drive share there. So I'm wondering if you could just give us a little more color on the pricing dynamics in the upgrade uptake that you've seen in whether the 200,000 target is now, obsolete or if you're sticking with that and the time frame is just a little bit longer. Thanks.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Our current Mac sale in the quarter was 174,000 units and that was impacted by two factors. The first is, we, as I indicated, reduced our total channel inventory by about 10% and the Power Mac line saw the largest component of that. We also were delayed in shipping the Xserve G5 until the last week of the quarter, so virtually all of the units that we sold were in our backlog and so when you account or add those two things back, our true sales on the Power Mac line were over 190,000 in the quarter. As regards our 200,000 unit objective, we still think in some quarters we'll be above that and some quarters we'll be a little bit below, just depending upon seasonality and where we are in the product life-cycle. Tim, do you want to add anything?  

TIM COOK: Just add a couple things to that, Joel. One is that the mix of G5 that we're selling is substantially richer than the mix historically that we saw in G4. And as we understand this at the market level, what is happening is that our video customers are adopting G5 very, very quickly, they value the performance of G5, the aps are all ported and we're doing amazingly well in that market. At the other end of the spectrum, the DMP customer's much slower to adopt.  

In some geographies, like Japan as an example, [inaudible] express is not ported yet, that obviously affects the level of adoption and the speed of adoption in the MP sector. I do think, however, that gives us a great opportunity moving forward. And sort of the middle of that spectrum, the education market is adopting it very well. And so the markets net net are all over the board. I think our greatest opportunity moving forward is to speed up the adoption in D&P.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: So there's no fundamental change in your thought about the adoption curve or the potential rate, it's just some gives and takes on each side of it that are affecting the timing of the trajectory of this cycle.  

TIM COOK: It's a good characterization. Basically, if you think about the same markets I told you about in video, that market economically is very healthy. The broadcasters have money, they're spending money. On the other end of that spectrum on the D&P sector, that market is still economically challenged. They're at the front end of this recovery curve but I think that bodes well for the future, is the positive way to look at that.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And I would add these segments are also going portable as well adding PowerBook into the mix.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Great, thanks. Congratulations on a great quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Richard Gardner with Smith Barney.  

RICHARD GARDNER, SALAMON SMITH BARNEY: Okay. Thanks. Peter, on the gross margin guidance, you talked about gross margin being pretty flat sequentially in the second calendar quarter, it seems like there are a couple of headwinds at the gross line. The iPod gross margin should continue to trend down. It sounds like you might have some product transitions at the high end of the product line, and, also, perhaps maybe a further slowdown in Mac OS 10 upgrade revenue. Just wondering if you can help us understand why you think the gross margins will remain flat in the June quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I think that we will continue to see a positive commodity cost environment that plays into it. I think our software sales will continue to be strong in our June quarter. They won't be at the level of what we saw in the December quarter, as Panther enters its third quarter, but it and iLife are doing incredibly well. And we also continue to do well in our direct sales, which plays well into our gross margin story.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And another question, if I could. There have been some rumblings recently of problems with iPod mini in terms of static potentially related to the connection between the headphone jack and the motherboard on the device. I know you probably can't comment at this point but just curious if you have any statement to make there.  

TIM COOK: Rich, we're highly confident with the minis that we're shipping. We've seen some of those reports, they're isolated on-line reports. We're investigating those as we want to very much understand those. But I would tell you that the number of complaints that we've had from customers through our Apple care tech support is extremely small. However, anyone that's listening to the call that has a problem, please call the Apple Care because we'd want to take care of the issue.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. I'm going to sneak one more in if I could. And that's on Xserve G5, are you happy with the supply of chips that you're getting from your major partner? And when do you expect to be caught up with that backlog? Thanks a lot.  

TIM COOK: Rich, as Peter talked about in analyzing the Power Macs fell in for the quarter, we shipped very, very few Xserve G5 last quarter, that was not a demand issue, it was a supply issue, so obviously we were not happy with the delivery that we got. However, IBM is working very, very hard to bring the supply demand in balance and we're confident that we will get there during the current quarter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ben Reitzes of UBS.  

BEN REITZES, UBS WARBURG: Yes, thank you. A couple things with regard to iPod. If you talk about the drive availability a little bit and you said you're going to be constrained and could you talk about when you feel that you can be comfortable with your suppliers in both levels, the regular iPods and the iPod minis, and also talk about with regard to new products in general. Is everything that you feel coming -- has anything slipped that perhaps on the new product side or do you still feel that you have a very robust product cycle coming? I know you don't give details, but is everything still on track with your previous expectations and do you still feel you have a robust product cycle coming?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll address sort of the questions on the product cycle and leave the iPod mini supply question to Tim. As you indicate, we're not going to get into telling you what our future products are, but we have all of our transitions, how many we think we can make factored into our guidance and are comfortable with that at this point in time.  

TIM COOK: Let me start with a white iPod. The iPod is in reasonable supply demand balance in every geography right now. And that took us a while to get there because of the intense demand, but it's in reasonably good balance today. On the mini it is not in balance. As you saw a few weeks ago, we've extended our international launch until July. We did that because demand was far exceeding the supply that we had previously planned across the quarter. My current view is that we will reach a supply demand balance during our fiscal Q4.  

BEN REITZES: So in calendar 3Q you feel you can be there, do you think you need to procure new sources for the iPod mini, or are you all set with the current supplier?  

TIM COOK: We will do whatever it takes to attempt to get into supply and demand balance. I wouldn't want to go into our specific plans.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. With regard to the retail stores, you mentioned that you had $5 million in profit and could you just talk about how that plays out sequentially throughout the year with the plan, is there any reason not to assume that that gets markedly better each quarter at least by a few million and how should we be thinking about how the profitability of that area plays out throughout the year?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I'm not going to get into providing a specific guidance for Q3 or beyond at the retail segment level. However, we'll tell you that Ron is really focused on growing the top and bottom line of our retail initiative. He is really trying to drive productivity into our existing stores and is focused on opening new stores that will be profitable in the first year.  

BEN REITZES: Okay. And then one last thing if I can sneak it in. Obviously, we have seen pretty strong results from Adobe recently with their Creative Suite. How would you characterize the state of the creative professional market right now and the state of the economy with regard to your creative customers.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, I'll make an opening comment and then Tim can add on. As regards the Adobe Creative Suite, that's a product that's doing well for them. It's growing quickly but it represents about 15% of their total revenue. It requires, Mac OS 10 to run, that's one of the reasons why we think we continue to do so well with Panther. But it runs not only on G5 but also G4s and Power Books and we think that our customers are not only upgrading to G5 but also PowerBooks to run it.  

BEN REITZES: You think that benefit continues in the current quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.  

BEN REITZES: Thank you.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Do you want to add anything?  

TIM COOK: Yeah. We'll just add two things to that. If you look at at our pro product, the PowerBook and the Power Mac, if you look at those products '03 to '02, fiscal year '03 to '02 we are up 13%. Over the first half of '04, we've gone 26%. And so that would indicate that the products are very, very strong, with accelerating growth. I would say once again that if you look at the spectrum of creative customers that we have, the video customer very, very strong. On the other end of the spectrum, D&P, the more traditional design publishing market, magazines, newspapers, etc., that market is slow to adopt the aps are slower getting there to ten in some of the geographies. However, again, I do view that that's an excellent opportunity for us moving forward.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Can we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, CROSS RESEARCH: Good afternoon, guys. A follow-up on the Xserve question. Is IBM the only supply constraint or component issue that you guys are seeing with the Xserve in terms of your delays?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And in terms of, I think you said you expect to catch up during this quarter, so do you feel they are now ramped up to full production on the 90 nanometer.  

TIM COOK: I feel that we are ramping to full production across the course of the quarter and that prior to the quarter's close that we would be in a supply and demand balance based on our current view of demand.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And then I had a different question on iTunes actually. We've noticed that on some of your albums, like the most popular ones, you've started to price above $10 and I'm just curious if you guys see yourselves developing some pricing power with iTunes.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Now, we are pricing most of our albums at $9.99. We are vastly more competitive than what you would see out there, especially from Amazon and other physical distributors of CDs.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. But you have priced some of them a bit higher; is that correct?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We are charged a bit more from some of the labels on some of the albums and are priced accordingly. The vast majority are -- the albums are at $9.99 and the vast majority of the songs are at 99 cents.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And finally with regard to your iPod numbers. Can you give me some idea of breakdown between the white iPod and your iPod mini in terms of the 800,000 you sold during the quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'm sorry, for competitive reasons we're not going to break out the mini from the iPod.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Then just I guess, was there any change in sort of the mix of traditional iPods during the quarter, so we can kind of back into it, or did you sort of sell the same kind of mix you've been selling historically?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: There was a bit of a mix-down.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thanks so much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon. Can we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go now to Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon, thanks. Just a couple of questions and a follow-up on Shannon's, if I may just ask it slightly differently just to make sure I understand, and that is: Can you comment about the degree of cannibalization that you saw within the white iPod with the introduction of the minis.  

TIM COOK: Yeah, Rebecca, it's Tim. It's very difficult to answer that question because the supply has been so constrained versus what the demand is on the mini.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Yeah.  

TIM COOK: Our current view is that we have seen very minimal. However, with a lot more supply we might have a different view, so right now very little.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Which makes sense. And then any update in terms of number of songs sold as it relates to iTunes.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: A couple weeks ago, we released that we have sold our 50 millionth song and we will provide updates from time to time as we cross major milestones.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Great. And then the last question, as it relates to Japan, obviously, last year was difficult, you saw some sequential stability in Japan. Can you just comment on how Japan fared relative to your internal expectations, especially within the context of the new store opening.  

TIM COOK: Yeah. Let me say a couple things about Japan, Rebecca. If you look back -- you talked about last year. In September and December quarters, from IDC, IDC shows that we actually gained share in Japan year-over-year in both of those quarters. I don't have the March numbers yet. Obviously, that will occur sometime after. However, looking at our March results, there's a couple points I should make in your analysis of those. One thing is that half of the year-over-year decline in units is due to a channel inventory adjustment in Japan. Secondly, the store that you referenced is not included in the Japan line that you see, it is included in our retail segment. And so when you take both of these into account, the reduction year-over-year is materially less than what you have on the sheet there.  

Now, having said all of that, I am not happy with our results in Japan and we've got a number of activities underway to make those results better. I mentioned before and I'll just briefly mention this again, is that some of the aps, like corp [ph] express is one of them in our key D&P sector is not ported yet in Japan. However, the current view is that that would happen during the later part of the current quarter. And so a number of things going on to improve our results there. How we compare to market for March, I don't really know. That market is not a great-growing market just now.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: But clearly you would expect the sequential performance throughout the year to improve in Japan given the initiatives you already have underway and those that are coming.  

TIM COOK: I am putting personally a lot of energy into Japan, as many people are at Apple, and we absolutely expect it to improve.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Wonderful. And just good luck, Fred. It's been great working with you.  

FRED ANDERSON: Thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Rebecca. Could we have the next question please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go now to Keith Bachman with the Banc of America.  

KEITH BACHMAN, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, a couple if I could. First off, the iBook numbers were better at least than I was expecting. Can you talk a little bit about what was going on there in terms of the unit growth.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah. We could not have been happier with iBook. It was 201,000 in the second quarter and I'd like to point out that was about the same number we saw in December.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Yeah.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We did not see a seasonal decline. We came out in October with the iBook upgrading to a G4. It has been met with great customer response. And the quarter that we had, both in December and March, was the second-biggest quarter in the Company's history for iBook, doing very well in consumer and in education.  

KEITH BACHMAN: And so is that upgrade process still being felt here close to quarter close.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're not going to give any specific early results in Q3, but if Q2 was any indication, it's quite positive.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. You mentioned that the gross margin was a little better than you thought, even as iPod margins were going down. What was the delta on the margin side?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Really two things. Slightly better commodity environment than we had anticipated, and we did a bit better in software, particularly in iLife, '04. The customer reception was just fabulous and we sold over 400,000 copies on a stand-alone basis, not including those that were bundled on the CPUs.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Got it. And then is there any kind of correlation or thought process we should be thinking about if direct sales are going up, they were 42% this quarter versus 35%, I think you said a year-ago quarter. What are the margin implications of that, if that keeps moving?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, there's really two or three things that will generally be accretive to our margin as we go forward and one area that I think would go down. Our direct sales when we sell directly, we sell really at the street price. We trap the channel margin. We also tend to sell a richer mix when we sell direct than when we sell through the channel. So both those things are good for margin. And our software portfolio and accessories continues to broaden quarter after quarter and those carry good margins as well. So those are the things that are generally accretive to margins. The hardware environment is very competitive and we are being as competitive there as we feel necessary to continue our growth and that would be an offset to the couple of positives that I laid out.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Just so I'm clear. You mentioned three, I only, for whatever reason caught two. Software portfolio.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Software portfolio, going more direct.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Yeah.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And selling up the line and attaching more while selling direct.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Gotcha. Okay. Thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Bill Fernly with FTN Midwest Research.  

BILL FERNLY, FTN MIDWEST RESEARCH: Good afternoon. A couple of questions on the Apple stores. Do you have any preliminary metrics on the focus of small and medium business in your seminar activities that you undertook here in the calendar first quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: This is just an estimate, but we would estimate that in the second quarter, 13% of our sales were to small and medium business, we would estimate that that was up from 5% in the year-ago quarter and 10% in the holiday quarter.  

BILL FERNLY: Okay. And another channels question as well. Tim had briefly mentioned earlier in the call in response to another question that he was looking at expanding channels and was wondering if he could give more deals on that, if it's more iPod focused, Macintosh focused, U.S. or international or any other details he could provide.  

TIM COOK: Bill, the specific comment I had made earlier was that we have expanded the iPod channel from 8,000 storefronts worldwide to 12,000 as we ended this past quarter, Q2.  

BILL FERNLY: Okay.  

TIM COOK: And I also said that we would continue to expand that channel because we want it in every good selling location.  

BILL FERNLY: So the channel would be more iPod focused then.  

TIM COOK: We are always looking for channel expansion for the Mac as well, but obviously not to those kinds of numbers.  

BILL FERNLY: Okay. And one last question if I could regarding higher ed strength. Was that with institutions and student buys as well, if you could provide some more details that would be great, thanks.  

TIM COOK: The strength was in both institutional and individual, yes. And picking up on the portable point that Peter made, across the PowerBook and the iBook our portables and higher ed were up 50% last quarter.  

BILL FERNLY: And was that mostly student purchase?  

TIM COOK: It's again, combination of student and institutional purchase.  

BILL FERNLY: Okay. Congratulations to Fred as well, thank you, folks.  

FRED ANDERSON: Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question's from Charles Wolf with Needham & Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Yes. I want to circle back to a question that Steve Milunovich asked. Do you plan to attempt to quantify the ability of the iPod, for example, to increase the number of switchers from the Windows to the Mac platform, is there any metrics that we can look at that might help us quantify that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: There really aren't. We have an idea of the Windows versus Mac sales, but we're not going to release that for competitive reasons. It's hard to measure it, especially through the channel because we don't control the point of sale. But with the number of just anecdotal stories that we're hearing about people that are either switching or adding Macs to their homes and businesses just is increasing over time.  

CHARLES WOLF: Peter, do you think it's possible that the strong iBook quarter might reflect switchers?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Absolutely. I also think upgrades to the G4 shift as well.  

CHARLES WOLF: Now, when does HP plan to ship the so-called H-pod.  

TIM COOK: Charlie, we still plan to begin shipping to HP in the summer. I would point out that HP is already downloading iTunes on a number of units that are shipping and in fact over 300,000 have already shipped.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thank you.  

TIM COOK: Yep.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Michelle Gutierrez with Schwab SoundView.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ, SCHWAB SOUNDVIEW CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi. I wanted to ask, did you guys provide the operating income by geography, because I couldn't find that anywhere.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, we have not provided that.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: This is something you provided in the past, is this something that you're not going to provide anymore?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We will provide that when we file our 10Q.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: Okay, great. On the iPod, is the iPod minis in particular, where you're seeing the capacity constraint. Is there any item in particular where [inaudible] are particularly in tight supply, are there any components or is it a manufacturing constraint?  

TIM COOK: Michelle, there's no manufacturing constraint at all. It is a component constraint. I'd rather not go into the details of that. The most important thing is that we're working very hard to balance supply and demand in fiscal Q4.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: For fiscal Q4?  

TIM COOK: Yes.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: Okay. And along the same lines as the iPod and the iPod mini, just from testimonials, it seems like you guys are offering a free upgrade from the iPod mini to the 15 gig iPod for customers who have to wait. It seems like there's almost a six-week wait time at this point. Have you seen any uptick on that?  

TIM COOK: That's actually not an offer that is generally available. For a few customers that we quoted a day and then could not achieve it, we gave them an option to do that at their election, but it's a very small number of customers.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: Okay. And, along with the iTunes, the Pepsi advertising campaign, can you give us an update on how that had closed out? Because I know that it had run a little bit behind expectations because of a slow turnover in terms of the stores.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We're very happy with the progress that we made on the music store and the customer reception to date and I think we'll be giving an update a little closer to our one-year anniversary and might include some comments on that.  

MICHELLE GUTIERREZ: Thank you very much. Great quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Michelle. Can we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Howard Glycier with Metropolitan West.  

HOWARD GLYCIER (ph), METROPOLITAN WEST: Hi, thank you. Fred and Peter, looking at the balance sheet without having the cash flow statement in front of me. It looks like the improvement in cash during the quarter was just north of $300 million, as total cash equivalents, short-term investments, including the reduction of debt, and it looks like working capital was maybe about a wash or something like that. Is that about right and it seems like a very high number?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. Our actual cash balance, as I said in the preamble, declined by about $200 million as a result of our paying off on February 17th our $300 million in debt. We had a strong cash conversion cycle in the quarter, I believe it was 35 days. DSO was 28 days. And inventory days were four. So we were quite pleased with our working capital management and actually very happy that our cash balance declined quite a bit less than the debt repayment.  

HOWARD GLYCIER (ph): Well, I don't want to mix terms, but your short-term investments, which I guess I'm also just calling cash, was up by $266 million. So shouldn't you add that to the original figure that you gave me for a true cash generating ability during the quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: When I refer to our cash at $4.594 billion, that included our cash and short-term investments. Gary, do you want to add anything?  

GARY WISTLER (ph), VP & CORPORATE TREASURER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: No. I think that summarized it pretty well. That we were looking at it the same way you were.  

HOWARD GLYCIER (ph): Okay. I'll follow-up further. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Howard. Can we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question's from Rob Cihra with Fulcrum Global Partners.  

ROB CIHRA, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi. Thanks very much. A few questions if that's all right. One, on the retail stores, you guys mentioned 88 being a target now by the end of this fiscal year and I believe your old target was 80. Is that right and can you say what prompted that or is that just simply the fact that stores are going well so you increased the number?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes. We increased from 80, which we have said we would have by the back-to-school season to 88 by the end of the fiscal year. The retail initiative is going very well, we're opening about 25 stores each year, by getting to 88 this fiscal year, that'll put us at 23 for the fiscal year. And in terms of the increase from 80 to 88, Ron and his real estate executive were able to secure some great sites that we had planned to open in the December quarter that we will open over the summer.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay. And if I could just ask, a broader question on your unit growth. If you look at -- not to take away clearly from the phenomenal success of the iPod, but if you look at your core Mac units they're only up 5% year-over-year, which is maybe a third of the broader PC market. Do you guys have a -- is there any reason to think that that at least catches up to PC market growth? It seems to have actually been lagging and so is there a reason why we think that that can actually increase, or is this a case of things like iPod start picking up the slack as maybe the Mac install base kind of shrinks?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, no, not at all. We would see each part of our product portfolio growing. In the first quarter our units were up 12% reasonably close to the market growth rate. This quarter they were up 5%. But as I mentioned, we took channel inventory down. So without getting too specific, our true sell-through was somewhat in between what we had in the first quarter sell-in versus what you see for this quarter. So it's just slightly behind the market growth rate.  

And really I think what's going on there is we are focused on growing our revenue and not as focused on worldwide market share because we think that's misleading for us, because we're not participating in every market around the world and we're not participating on the low end of the desktop, which has seen a lot of growth, but people don't seem to be making any money there. However, in the markets that we are competing, we think that we're building momentum. We gained about a point of market share in U.S. Education in calendar year '03. As Tim mentioned in the first half, our Pro products are up 26% year-over-year. And we think we're gaining share in the consumer market that we -- in consumer price bands that we are participating in.  

ROB CIHRA: Okay. Thanks very much.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yep.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Could we have the next question please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Thank you. I had a couple follow-up questions. You mentioned earlier on the commodity prices as one of the benefits to gross margin. I wonder if you can give us some color or breakdown of that because it seems that most of the components are actually pretty stable or up actually in price lately. That's the first question. And then, the other question I was on the -- follow-up on the balance sheet, you said your inventory days were like four days which was down a day from last quarter, I mean is that a sustainable target going forward, the four days?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Let me start with your balance-sheet question. Yes, we were at four days this quarter which was down from six days in Q1. I'm not going to get into giving a specific target of where we think inventory will be, except to say that we're generally carrying about two to three weeks of inventory in our stores, and we run our own distribution centers pretty lean. And, I'm sorry, what was your first question?  

KEVIN HUNT: On the commodity prices, just give me some color, you mentioned there was a benefit to the gross margin in the quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Are you asking about Q2, Q3 or both?  

KEVIN HUNT: The most recent quarter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: In Q2 we had a slightly better environment on LCDs than we had factored in. But did not do quite as well on memory, but on balance were certainly favorable to what we saw in Q1 and were slightly better than what we had planned for the quarter.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. And then going forward, what's the outlook?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Tim, would you like to address that?  

TIM COOK: Yeah, sure, Peter. Going forward on memory, we saw memory begin to climb in last quarter, we viewed that that climb will continue in the early part of this quarter, and then the things that we believe are driving that mainly I believe subside as the quarter moves on. In panels, we saw panel pricing in general for notebooks fall across last quarter, I think it reaches a kind of supply demand equilibrium this quarter. Monitor pricing went up slightly, but we are less affected by that because of the number of notebooks that we showed. The balance of the commodities we look to have reasonably normal declines and that's where we get the bulk of the component savings that Peter has spoken about.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Actually, two other things. What was the number of stores that you said you had at the end of this quarter? I think I missed that.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: 78.  

KEVIN HUNT: And then did you show us how many iTunes you're at as at the end of the quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No.  

KEVIN HUNT: Downloads?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We did not.  

KEVIN HUNT: Are you going to disclose that or --  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: A couple of weeks ago we had said that we had sold our 50 millionth song and we will from time to time provide updates as we cross major milestones.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to David Sessman with Praxis Asset Management.  

DAVID SESSMAN (ph), PRAXIS [PH] ASSET MANAGEMENT: Hi. I had a couple questions about the reporting of revenue and profits in the stores. There's been some confusion about how the costs are allocated to the stores. Can you elaborate on that? The question -- the units sold, the software and the hardware.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Right. It's our corporate policy not to comment on pending litigation so I don't want to get into that.  

DAVID SESSMAN (ph): Okay.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, David. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Yes, ma'am. Our next question a's from Andrew Neff with Bear Stearns.  

ANDREW NEFF, BEAR STEARNS: Just on the iTunes. I know you haven't gone into a lot of detail on that. But is iTunes additive to profitability at this point, any sense of what it could be going forward?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah. In the second quarter, we have a small profit on the music store. Going forward, not going to provide a guidance, but future profitability would be dependent upon pricing and what the labels would charge us volume. And what we invest to grow the store.  

ANDREW NEFF: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Can we have the next question, please.  

ANDREW NEFF: We'll take a follow-up question from Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Just a quick clarification question on the HP music units that will start shipping this summer. I'm assuming that your commentary about reaching a supply demand balance on iPod overall in the fiscal fourth quarter is inclusive of the HP products. Can you confirm that, and then, also, as it relates to your shipment schedule, have you had to scale back your volume commitments to HP as a result of the supply demand issue?  

TIM COOK: Rebecca, the deal with HP is on the iPod, not the iPod mini. HP and Apple might decide at a later date to include the mini, but we have not done that thus far. And as I've said earlier, we are today at a supply demand balance on the iPod. And I don't anticipate that changing as we begin to ship to HP.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Fabulous. Thank you so much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Could we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Take our next question -- follow-up from Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS: Yes. Just a very quick question. In terms of -- you had mentioned I think your warranty levels had gone back to more stable levels, which is one thing that helped the gross margin. Did you reverse any of the warranty accrual that you took in the prior quarter or how does that reserve stand?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. We did not adjust that reserve back to income and we are processing claims from customers as they come in.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. And any idea on how long you expect to continue to process claims and then I suppose there will be a true-up at some point.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We still think our reserve is appropriate. Tim, do you want to comment on either of the programs?  

TIM COOK: No. I agree with what Peter's said. We always look at the reserve at the end of every quarter to ensure that the number of claims that we've taken has been about what we expected and we did that in the case that you're talking about and we feel comfortable with what's provisioned.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thanks, Shannon. Can we have the next question please.  

OPERATOR: We'll take a follow-up from Bill Fernly with FTN Midwest Research.  

BILL FERNLY: Yes, thank you. Just a quick follow-up question on the eMac. Are you folks looking at any potential margin hit from the new configurations announced earlier this week, especially with the new lower price on the $9.99 model?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: In general, no.  

BILL FERNLY: Okay. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thanks very much to everyone, a reporting of today's call will be available for replay by telephone for seven days beginning at 5 p.m. Pacific time today and the number for the replay is 719-457-0820. And the confirmation code is 496200. A replay of the Webcast of the call will be available beginning at approximately 5 p.m. Pacific time today at  www.apple.com/investor and that will remain available for approximately 12 months. Members of the press with additional questions can follow up with Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact either John Hoover or me with additional questions. John is at 408-974-4570 and I am at a 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040428e04e0018n
  


 HD
 Q1  2004 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,376 words
   PD
14 January 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss first quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to the Senior Director of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations, Miss Nancy Paxton. Please go ahead.  

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us today. Apple issued its first quarter earnings press release at approximately 1:30 P.M. Pacific time today and the earnings press release and financials are available on First Call as well as Apple's website. Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Fred Anderson and ge'll be joined by Senior VP of Finance Peter Oppenheimer and VP and Corporate Treasurer Gary Wistler for Q&A session with analysts.  

   TD
Please note that some of the information you'll hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, products, promotions, Apple's retail initiatives, debt retirement and earnings. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information please refer to pages 31 through 39 of Apple form 10-K for the year ended September 27, 2003.  

Please also note that should non-GAAP financial measures be included in today's call, such information should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. While we don't anticipate providing nonGAAP measures, should we provide them a reconciliation of the GAAP and nonGAAP measures will be posted on Apple's website at  www.apple.com/investor. In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the internet. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Fred Anderson.  

FRED ANDERSON, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. We are very pleased with the results of our first fiscal quarter which exceeded our guidance. Revenue of 2 billion 6 million was up 36% year over year and represented Apple's highest quarterly revenue in 4 years. Net income was 63 million or 17 cents per diluted share. These GAAP results include an after tax investment gain of 3 million which increased earnings by 1 cent per share.  

We sold 829,000 Macintosh units and 733 iPods during the quarter. That represents a year over year increase of 12% for CPU units and 35% for iPod shipments. In addition to iPods, strong sales of peripherals and software, particularly Panther upgrades, drove revenue growth substantially higher than CPU units growth during the quarter. Ending channel inventory declined slightly and remained within our target range of four to five weeks.  

In terms of products, portable units represented a record high 48% of all Macintosh systems sold during the quarter. PowerBook shipments hit a record high of 195,000 units while iBook shipments totaled 201,000 units. Power Mac shipments were 206,000 units and iMac shipments were 227,000 units. The iTunes Music Store and our new third generation iPods continued to gain momentum during the quarter bolstered by the introduction of iTunes for Windows.  

The iTunes Music Store remains very popular, available to both Mac and Windows users in the United States and just one click away from 25 million AOL members. We had a blowout quarter for iPods, selling a record 733,000 units representing 256 million in revenue. According to the latest data available for NPD Tech World, which tracks US retail channels, iPod remains the clear number one selling MP3 player. As we announced last week, over 30 million songs have been purchased and downloaded through the iTunes Music Store including 17 million during the December quarter.  

In the latest survey conducted by Nielson Sound Scam, the iTunes Music Store accounted for 70% of all legal music download. Clearly iPod and iTunes Music Store are distancing themselves from the competition and we expect this momentum to continue.  

At Mac World last week, we announced the exciting ultra portable iPod mini, targeted at the high end of the market for flash based MP3 players which represents an estimated 31% of the overall MP3 player market. Next month on Super Bowl Sunday, Pepsi and Apple will launch a historic promotion to give away 100 million songs from the iTunes Music Store. Building on this momentum as we announced last week, Hewlett Packard will begin selling an HP branded digital music player based on Apple's iPod and pre-installing iTunes on it's consumer PCs and notebooks this summer.  

It was an outstanding quarter for Apple's retail stores which generated revenue of $273 million up 84% from the year ago quarter. The retail segment profit was 9 million which does not include associated manufacturing profit of $52 million. We opened eight stores during the quarter including our first international store in Tokyo, bringing our quarter end open store count to 73. With an average of 69 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store increased to $4 million up from 3.1 million in the year ago quarter.  

Traffic through the stores accelerated in the holiday quarter reaching a total of 5.9 million people compared to 4.3 million in the September quarter. This translates into an average of over 6,000 visitors per store per week in the December quarter.  

We are very pleased with the early results of our Tokyo store which opened on November 30. First months sales through the Tokyo store were the highest of any Apple store opening to date, averaging over $1 million per week. We have plans to open additional high profile stores, one in San Francisco in the spring of 2004 and one in Osaka, Japan in the fall.  

For retail in the year ahead, we'll focus on driving comparable store revenue increases with programs aimed at switchers, small business and enhanced services through our already extremely popular genius bar. Our total education channel unit shipments increased 8% from the year ago quarter while revenue was up 20% driven by strong growth in higher education.  

In terms of geographic performance, Europe segment revenues were up 48% year over year while Japan was up 13% and Asia Pacific up 55%. The Americas segment revenue increased 25% year over year. Adding U.S. Apple retail store sales to the America's segment sales yields a 34% year over year increase.  

Gross margin was 26.7%, slightly below our guidance of 27.1%, primarily due to higher warranty expense than expected and an unplanned product transition on the power Mac G5. Operating expenses were 462 million, 7 million higher than expected due to slightly higher advertising expenses as well as variable selling expenses associated with the higher than expected revenue. Operating profit expanded to 3.7% of sales, Apple's highest quarterly operating margin in 13 quarters. Other income and expense was 13 million including 4 million in pretax gains from the sale of Aukamise(ph) shares. The tax rate for the quarter was 28% as expected.  

In terms of the balance sheet, cash was up 225 million sequentially to just under 4.8 billion. The increase in cash was attributable to the strong earnings in the quarter combined with our continued outstanding working capital management. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were 44 million including 28 million for our retail initiative.  

Looking ahead to the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. For the second quarter of fiscal 2004 we expect our third consecutive quarter of year over year double digit growth in both revenue and earnings.  

We are targeting revenue of about $1.8 billion and earnings per diluted share of 8 cents to 10 cents. We expect a sequential increase in gross margins to about 27.5%. We expect operating expenses to remain relatively flat at about 460 million as the seasonal decrease in advertising spending is offset by higher research and development expenses as well as the full impact of employee salary merit increases which became effective on December 1. We expect other income and expense to be about 10 million and we expect the tax rate to be 28%.  

Lastly we planned to retire the 300 million in senior debt on February 17 and become a debt-free company. With that I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: Our question and answer session today will be conducted electronically. If you'd like to ask a question, simply press the star key followed by the digit 1 on your touch tone telephone. Once again star 1 if you'd like to ask a question. We'll pause a moment to assemble our question audience. If you are using a speakerphone, please make sure your mute function is turned off to allow your signal to reach our equipment. We'll take our first question today from Steve Milunovich from Merrill Lynch.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Could you comment first on the higher warranty expense in the quarter? Exactly what product that was associated with and whether that will continue. Also curious if you can say anything about the relationship with HP in terms of economics and what kind of incremental business that could create in the second half.  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay. In terms of the extra warranty expense in the quarter, we had unplanned reserves that we accrued for a higher than normal warranty repairs for certain portable products such as our Power Book 15" product and iBook.  

And the second question was related to HP? We are incredibly optimistic about the announcement last week in terms of HP remarketing an HP branded iPod based upon the Apple iPod product and bundling our iTunes software on all of their consumer PCs. No one can sit here today and predict how much incremental revenue is going to be driven. We'll just have to let the numbers as they evolve speak for themselves. HP is number one in the consumer market. They have incredible distribution reach to the consumer market. So we are very optimistic that this is going to drive significant incremental business for our iPod and iTunes Music Store.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Was there a particular problem in product reliability with that PowerBook and is lower warranty expense part of the reason you expect a better gross margin in 2Q?  

FRED ANDERSON: I think it's been reported that some customers, of course, were reporting the appearance of some faint white spots on their displays after using the system for a short period. Apple and our supplier quickly resolved the problem and any customers experiencing this problem should contact our Apple Care organization. Given this, we felt that it was appropriate to accrue a reserve at the end of our December quarter to provide for these repairs and take care of any ongoing problems. For any new systems being shipped, the problem has been resolved.  

STEVE MILUNOVICH: Thank you.  

FRED ANDERSON: Thanks, Steve.  

NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Dan Rysis with UBS.  

BEN REITZES, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon. Thank you. I wanted to ask you about product availability as well as how you could characterize demand for the Power Macs and the Power Books in the fourth quarter and how they go into this quarter. Obviously the iPod category had a very big surprise but if you could just talk about how you characterize that.  

FRED ANDERSON: Sure. Clearly even though we increased the supply of our iPods above what had been originally forecasted for the December quarter, we were unable to meet all of the demand. We clearly had reports of a lot of stock outs of certain models around the world. Even though we had a record quarter of 733,000 iPod unit sales which, as I said, generated 256 million in revenues, and, by the way, that does not include accessories related to the iPod or extended warranty services.  

If you added all those in, it would have been the total revenues related to iPod would have been 270 million. We had a great quarter but it could have been higher had we not had the shortages and what I'll tell you is that we have tremendous momentum going into the March quarter that we've just started and that will be enhanced by the new iPod mini shipping in February as well as the Pepsi Apple promotion, the giveaway of up to 100 million songs. Just couldn't be happier with the iPod but we have to acknowledge that we didn't have enough supply to meet all the demand.  

BEN REITZES: Did you have to do tradeoffs between the mini and the regular iPods in terms of supplies and with your suppliers.  

FRED ANDERSON: No, not to my knowledge. And again the mini iPod won't begin shipping til February. The second question I think you were asking about the Power Mac?  

BEN REITZES: Yeah.  

FRED ANDERSON: The Power Mac sell-through for the December quarter was actually slightly better than even the September quarter; although, the unit sales were lower and that was because of a couple of factors. One is the normal fill for the channel when you introduce for the first quarter a new product, plus we did decrease our ending channel inventory some on our Power Mac line in the December quarter for the September quarter. We were at our expectations on the Power Mac line, but I will tell you that the duo processor is stronger in terms of the mix of sales being higher end than we would have expected. I view that as a positive.  

BEN REITZES: The way I should have followed-up to the iPod question is what's the indication of shelf space in your retailers as far as tradeoffs with the other iPod. How is the retail reception going to be? Will it be not as many outlets as the current iPod?  

FRED ANDERSON: We're really pleased. We have much broader distribution with our iPod than we do with our Macintosh products or our other products because we have places like Best Buy and Bowe's(ph) and Circuit City, other outlets that are carrying it. I think we have, Peter, over 8000 outlets in terms of retail store fronts around the world. We feel that we have very broad good distribution. That's only going to get enhanced when the HP deal comes online this summer.  

BEN REITZES: Okay, thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Ben. Can we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Richard Gardner with Smith Barney.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Thank you very much. Fred, you said that part of the gross margin pressure in the quarter was due to the unplanned product transition in the Power Mac line? I'm assuming most of that is airfreight? Was hoping you could confirm that and do you expect to continue to airfreight at all in the March quarter or will that go away. Then also, in your 10-K you had mentioned that gross margins could be under pressure because of aggressive industry pricing and some increases in component costs. Can you talk about whether those were material factors at the gross margin line this quarter at all?  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay, I'm going to ask Peter Oppenheimer to answer that question relative to the G5.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF FINANCE AND CONTROLLER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Okay, I'll do the components as well. I'll start with the components, Rich. The component costs that we saw in the December quarter were reasonably in line with our forecast. In terms of the impact to gross margin that Fred talked about in his preamble, that really related to our transition of the product. We reduced price on the single processor 1.6 and 1.8 and we introduced a dual processor 1.8 at virtually the same price point that we had its predecessor product so we saw lower margins as a result of doing that and had some transition costs as well. Airfreight did not really differ materially from what we had in our initial forecast.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. So it was a combination of just lower margins based on the new pricing structure as well as maybe some price protection, perhaps?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes.  

FRED ANDERSON: There was a little of that and then also some cancellation of POs as a result of changing the configurations of those two. So there were about three different hits we took related to that G4 mid-quarter transition that was unplanned.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Okay and so, going I guess you had given a gross margin range of 27-28 for the year and I guess going into the next quarter you expect all of these sort of one-time factors to be behind us and to be solidly back in that range again.  

FRED ANDERSON: Yes, 27.5% and I'm going to ask Peter to go over about the four reasons for the improvement that we are expecting.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Right, Rich, let me just start by talking about what we expect to see in the commodity environment first and then there's some other factors as well. For LCDs, we would see supply and demand in equilibrium so prices being relatively flat. For memory, we would expect supply to exceed demand and therefore, see pricing trending down slightly and the other commodities, we would expect a decline at normal rates. So overall, we would see a favorable component cost environment in the March quarter from what we saw in December.  

In addition to that, we would see a better mix of pro product sales in the March quarter and return to more normal warranty expense in the March quarter as well. Slightly offsetting those three positive factors, we expect to have lower software sales as Panther enters the second quarter.  

RICHARD GARDNER: Great. Thanks, Peter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Joel Wagonfeld with First Albany Capital.  

JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY CORPORATION: Thanks, very much. I was wondering, does offering the iTunes software on the Windows platform with HP reduce the effectiveness of your iPod and your iTunes which is driving more of your Mac sales? Is this a change in strategy that we may see in other areas and in light of that, what would you project the mix of non core CPU products to be, say, two to three years out? Thanks.  

FRED ANDERSON: Whoa, the last one I'm not going to take out a crystal ball to predict that mix three years out. I just, I am sorry, I don't have that kind of crystal ball. Related to the HP strategic alliance or relationship that will come online this summer, I view that it's a great opportunity to drive incremental sales both of our iPod as well as songs on our Music Store. We will still have one advantage, though, as it relates to a customer who is considering whether they want to stay Windows or may consider next time they buy a second or third computer for the home as to whether they want to buy a Mac.  

The reason is that iTunes is the only application of our digital lifestyle aps, meaning iLife, that is available on Windows. We have iPhoto, iMovie and we have iDVD and broadband, which I think is just phenomenal, that are not available on Windows. So I think that people who enjoy the fantastic experience of using iTunes software and the HP branded iPod may over time say, you know, I'd like the opportunity to enjoy some of the other digital lifestyle software. So, I think there's still a reason for them to want to buy Mac.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Thanks, very much. We shouldn't expect some others to migrate over time?  

FRED ANDERSON: No plans to do so.  

JOEL WAGONFELD: Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joel. The next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Walter Wynetski, an independent analyst.  

WALTER WYNETSKI (ph), ANALYST, INDEPENDENT: Yes, thanks. I have two questions, Fred. First, relative to software sales, would you care to maybe quantify the impact either on revenues or talk about if it had any significant impact on the gross margin? And second, relative to the HP distribution agreement or a partnership, would it be fair to look at that as more of a one-off distribution type of agreement to increase the installed base as opposed to maybe Apple moving in more of a direction to license its IP in a more general basis?  

FRED ANDERSON: I'll take the HP one first and I'll ask Peter to answer the second one. You know, I think Apple viewed this as a tremendous opportunity to have a strategic partner relationship with a great company that could, you know, bring to market our iPod and our iTunes Music Store to a greater number of customers world wide. So, we think that is a win-win situation for both HP and Apple and I wouldn't speculate on any other opportunities like that in the future. Peter, you want to take the revenue and gross margin?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Total software sales as shown on the data summary were 238 million, that's software and other, up 54% year over year. So, overall, we did very well in software but would point out specifically Panther. We were very happy with its first quarter. Revenues were over $60 million meeting our expectations and it has gotten rave customer reviews.  

FRED ANDERSON: That's the best first quarter upgrade revenue levels that I can remember on a new operating system. It was just phenomenal, the market acceptance for that new operating system, really.  

WALTER WYNETSKI (ph): Fred, did that have a notable or any kind of impact on the gross margin line?  

FRED ANDERSON: It had, as expected, we factored in a really strong quarter and it happened. You know, we expect in the second quarter and beyond to even see a stronger performance in terms of follow on quarters with this release of the operating system than prior OS releases. The other reason is we have about almost 10 million various versions of releases of Mac OS 10 out there right now and so this provides a much larger installed base for upgrades. When you come out with one with 150 features like we just did with Panther which ar really significant improvements, you should see your OS upgrade sales go up substantially, and they did.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Walter. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question today comes from Bill Shope with JP Morgan.  

BILL SHOPE, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Okay, great, thanks. As we are trying to model the new iPod mini, can you tell us whether or not it carries higher or lower margins than the current iPod average just qualitatively? And then, also, could you give us an idea if you had shortages on key notebook components during the December quarter and then, finally could you just give us a qualitative read in what you saw in terms of S&B in the retail stores?  

FRED ANDERSON: Sure. Let me first say that the iPod gross margins were better than expected in the first quarter and they were very close to our overall corporate gross margin average due to a strong mix of direct sales in the quarter combined with favorable component costs. What I would say, I don't want to get into because we are also under nondisclosure in terms related to HP and don't want to get into specifically gross margin on the mini iPod but I will tell you, on these two new products roll into as we go into the year into the mix, we're still confident, although we won't be able to maintain the gross margins that we enjoyed that were very good and strong this quarter when you roll in the effect of the HP deal and the mini iPod because they both would have lower gross margins than what we achieved in the current iPod. We still believe we can maintain gross margins even when those roll in at close to 20%.  

BILL SHOPE: Okay. and the FNB activity in the stores and notebook component availability?  

FRED ANDERSON: I am sorry, could you repeat the questions?  

BILL SHOPE: I just asked the question, just a qualitative read on FNB activity in the stores and, again, shortages on notebook component availability?  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay, I am going to ask Peter to answer that.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I'll start with the notebook components. Across all the quarter, we were able to meet our demand on both the iBook and the PowerBook. I recall panel supply occasionally being a little tight but across the quarter, we were fine and met demand. In terms of the retail, I don't have a quantification of how much FNB sales were of the phenomenal 273 million that Ron had; however, he did make a qualitative comments on the fact he was pleased with both FNB sales, consumer sales as well some of the education programs as well, in terms of reaching out to customers from the stores.  

BILL SHOPE: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, Fred. Just a couple of follow-up questions. First one, as relates to inventory decrease you saw in the channel for EpowerMac that you saw in the quarter which gave you the lower than expected for my model December sales for EpowerMac, can you talk about the order of magnitude decrease of inventory and where it stands right now and what you expect going forward?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, what we can tell you is, I don't want to get into the individual products, although the EpowerMac drove a significant part of what I am going to say. The channel inventory in terms of units was down 6% at the end of the December quarter from the September quarter.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And, where you'd like to see it or a little bit lower than you'd like to see it?  

FRED ANDERSON: As I said in the preamble, we try to manage our channel inventory and the four to five week range and we were within that range on a look-back basis, we were very much at the low end of that range. Obviously we are expecting sales to decline a little which is the normal industry phenomenon from the December quarter to the March quarter.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And just qualitatively, a little bit of a follow-up if you can provide some perspective on desktops versus notebooks. I guess what I'm driving at, you talked some of the reasons why EpowerMac was weaker than people perhaps expected and certainly there are some reasons to expect iMac performance as it was but both of those numbers missed, for my model, whereas notebooks exceeded. And why the shift to notebooks is happening at a faster rate or in line with expectations and variances that were more one-time in nature that unfolded in the quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: First thing I would say is, I remember about a year ago Steve said that 2003 would be the year of the portable and it certainly has been for Apple. We've seen, as expected, a significant mix shift away from desk tops to portables and we have two great portable offerings with our PowerBook and iBook. I think that's a lot of it.  

I think the second point on the iMac, the flat panel iMac at $1299 captures a good share of the price bands for products, $1200 or higher, a lot of the consumer market has moved down below the $1,000 price point, as you know. So, that would be my comment there. The combination of moving the portables plus the iMac being priced above where the sweet spot in the market is, below $1,000, has probably contributed to that.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And, of course, you are not going to comment on plans to address that sweet spot?  

FRED ANDERSON: I'm not going to talk about future products relative to any of our products, including the iMac.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: And just, lastly and I apologize if I missed it as I dropped off for a second, specific commentary on what you are seeing in the creative professional market given the strong lineup of products that you currently have, and if you can comment or provide any color, in terms of what type of demand you think is product cycle driven versus overall improvement in the buying pattern of that in market?  

FRED ANDERSON: I'll start this and then ask Peter to chime in if he has anything to add to it. What I understand is that, you know, there is this, I guess it is "Trend Watch" that does a twice-a-year survey. The last survey I read for the first time indicated that the number of customers in the creative markets that were saying business conditions were improving, had gone up. So, I think the worst is over because conditions are improving and ad revenues are starting to go up. So, I think the business environment is improving. Clearly, we have strong offerings now with the G5 EpowerMac for that market and having finally all the adds such as the Adobe Photo Shop and Cork Express available on the platform and Panther now out on the market. I think we have the ingredients for improved pro sales of our pro products into the creative markets.  

REBECCA RUNKLE: Thank you so much.  

FRED ANDERSON: You're welcome.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rebecca. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We will go next to Shannon Cross with Cross Research.  

SHANNON CROSS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Hi, good afternoon, guys.  

FRED ANDERSON: Hi.  

SHANNON CROSS: A couple of questions, one, can you give us an update on what you're seeing in the education market., I think you noted higher education is strong but maybe you can talk a little bit about K through 12? Seems like Schwarzenegger maybe is not going to cut the California budget as much as what was expected and then, an update on your pilot with Best Buy and how that went over the holiday season?  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay, I am going to ask Peter to address both of those.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I will start with Best Buy. Best Buy carries in all of their stores our iPods and we were very pleased with sales in the first quarter. We continued to assort the CPUs in about 50 of their stores and we don't have anything to announce today in terms of expansion of that presence. In terms of education, higher ed was up strongly year over year. In K-12 was down just slightly. Funding requirement in many states as you indicated remains tough but there's money out there available for purchase of computers and we are working hard to get our fair share.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, great. And then, just a follow-up, I'm curious, in terms of the decrease in channel inventory at the end of the quarter, I know we've hit this a bit, would any of that be sort of prior to the refresh of the EpowerMac line or is this purely just to prepare you guys for sort of a slower quarter as you enter into, you know, '04?  

FRED ANDERSON: Clearly we're not going to talk about any potential future products, but, yes, as a normal season matter because your average weekly sell through for the whole industry, I think industry typically goes down 8-10 from the December quarter to the March quarter, a company that's doing the right thing ought to bring down their channel inventory in the December quarter.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay and then in terms of sales of Panther which are stronger than we anticipated for your overall software sales, how should we think about what percent of your installed basis, anything you can give us?  

FRED ANDERSON: I can give you a little bit on that. My understanding is we have 20 million of our installed base that would technically be able to upgrade the Macro S-10 and about 50% of that base or 10 million is running some release of Macro S-10. So, about 50% of the base.  

SHANNON CROSS: Great. Thanks.  

FRED ANDERSON: Of the eligible base. We have a bigger base than 20 million, in total.  

SHANNON CROSS: Okay, thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Shannon, can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Charles Wolf with Needham and Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM AND COMPANY: Yes, I have a couple of questions. How many Pod sales were sold internationally versus domestically?  

FRED ANDERSON: Simple answer is a little over two-thirds of the sales in the quarter were in the U.S.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay and then I noticed in your 10-K you plan to spend about 80 million to expand the Apple stores in 2004 and you spent about 28 million, I believe, in the first quarter. It looks to me you're planning to open around 15 new stores during the year, is that reasonably correct?  

FRED ANDERSON: No, we positioned we would have 80 stores by back to school, that could be a couple more. What you have to look at is the number of what I'll call large, high profile stores. If you went to Tokyo, you'd see that was a very incredible store that's a high profile store. In Tokyo, obviously, expected to and has been hitting the first month high sales and a store like that costs more than one in Buffalo, New York which is a small store. Also as we indicated an opening in San Francisco, another high profile store this spring and in the fall another one in Osaka, Japan.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And Charlie, let me just clarify some of the capital expenditure numbers. In our K we said we would spend about 160 million across the fiscal year of which 85 would be in retail. In Q-1, we spent 44 million and in total of 28 million was for retail.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay and finally, I'm curious about the Pepsi giveaway. Is Apple sharing the expenses of that giveaway with Pepsi?  

FRED ANDERSON: Let me say this, that we have fully incorporated, we are under nondisclosure on that arrangement and we've incorporated into our guidance whatever impact there might be.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thanks a lot, Fred.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go now to Keith Bachman with Banc of America.  

KEITH BACHMAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Hi, thanks. I have two questions. When you look at the G5 sales, you mentioned the Panther upgrade and where you are with that. A similar question on G5, do you have any sense about where you might be in terms of upgrade associated with people moving from the G4 to the G5 platform?  

FRED ANDERSON: I think we're going to continue to see strong upgrades from our installed base, pro base to the G5 over time here. I've been asked that question before and I think I answered our goal is to sustain EpowerMac sales, total EpowerMac sales at or above the 200,000 unit level. It doesn't mean it all depends when you come out with a new rev to the G5, you might have something that will spike well above that as you get where the later part of the life cycle of the given rev, you might find it dropped slightly below. But I think we can sustain the EpowerMac line sales at least 200,000 units going forward.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay.  

FRED ANDERSON: Per quarter.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Fair enough. When you think about the 200,000 level per quarter, is there any sense you get about how to dissect that in terms of upgrades versus potential new market converts?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, I can just tell you, well, we could point to one which wasn't an upgrade which was a super computer at Virginia Tech where they bought 11000 dual processor, 1100 I mean, I wish it was 11,000. 1100 G5 Power Macs and that was new. So, you know, you're going to find some new. Typically the majority of those, I can't give you an exact percent but the majority of your sales of the Power Mac line would be existing installed base upgrading to a faster processor.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay. Europe look particularly strong on a year over year basis, also a sequential basis in terms of GOs. Any kind of flavor or color you can give us there?  

FRED ANDERSON: Peter, why don't you take that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Q1 is Europe's big product quarter typically for the industry and for us so that really explains the sequential increase. We were very pleased though with the growth of 19% in units and 48% in revenue year over year. The revenue growth was nicely in front of the unit growth really reflecting two things: Strong non CPU product sales such as the iPod but also a strong pro quarter in Europe as well which attributed to the revenue growth.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Okay, one more question, if I can just going back to the upgrade cycles. Any sense on how, I understand the 200 thousand per quarter comment but any sense on the installed base or available target market of G4s, any numbers you think might be relevant or appropriate for an addressable upgrade market from G4 to G5? Is it 20% done, is it 50% done, any kind of thoughts there?  

FRED ANDERSON: I'm sorry, I just don't have that visibility.  

KEITH BACHMAN: Fair enough. That's all for me. Fair enough.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Keith. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Rob Serra with Fulcrum Global Partners.  

ROB SERRA, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi, thanks, very much. Just to continue on the EpowerMac. I'm just curious, not sure if you can give color on it but historically part of the importance and strength of the EpowerMac was premium gross margins and I'm guessing you're not there yet because it's an early product cycle but I am just wondering how the gross margin trends have been maybe and then, strategically, is your ultimate goal, would it be to sort of get that back to a high gross margin product or maybe the world is different now, you have to be price competitive and maybe never get back to that type of level, not sure if you can give color about that?  

FRED ANDERSON: I'll be clear, the high level priority is to expand the unit sales of our EpowerMac G5 product. You know, it typically is our highest margin product family, but if we have to trade off some margin to drive increase sales of the product family, that's our first priority.  

ROB SERRA: Is there any reason with the new architecture that would change at all or is it clearly just a pricing issue for you guys?  

FRED ANDERSON: I am not sure I understand the pricing versus architecture. You mean, the architecture allows you to reduce costs?  

ROB SERRA: I guess I'm thinking the other way around. Is the new architecture, does it keep you from getting to the gross margin you used to get to or is that not really an issue, more just a pricing strategy issue for you?  

FRED ANDERSON: We are more aggressive on our G5 EpowerMac pricing than we have been if you go back a couple years ago on our G4 EpowerMac. So that's a conscious decision on the company's part to drive increased sales of that EpowerMac line.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Especially when you consider performance.  

ROB SERRA: Okay, thank you, very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank, Rob. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Next, we will go to Phil Gucci with Zebra Funds.  

PHIL GUCCI, ANALYST, ZEBRA FUNDS: Hi. Can you tell me again what the $3 million of extraordinary income was and also, are there any,I don't want to say plans, I don't you don't talk about future products, where does video movies play in your future projects for iPods or similar things?  

FRED ANDERSON: I'm sorry, could you restate your first question and second again? I didn't get it.  

PHIL GUCCI: The $3 million of extraordinary income, where did that come from?  

FRED ANDERSON: Gary Litsworth, our Treasurer, would you like to answer that?  

GARY LITSWORTH, TREASURER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Sure. We sold remaining shares of Achemi that we held which drove a pretax gain of $4 million and an after tax gain of $3 million.  

PHIL GUCCI: Okay and the second question was if you guys have any plans of, I guess, expanding your iPod concept into video at some point?  

FRED ANDERSON: You know, I just have to say we don't talk about future products. I mean, we have a very, very talented group of technical people here at Apple. You know, over 2,500 people in R&D and they can do a lot of things but we are not going to talk about it.  

PHIL GUCCI: Okay, thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Phil. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bill Fernly with FTN Midwest Research.  

BILL FERNLY, ANALYST, FTN MIDWEST RESEARCH: Good afternoon. A couple of quick questions for you. Mix on iPod units, do you have any Windows percentages that you can track with the registration card data?  

FRED ANDERSON: Peter, you want to take that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, we are collecting registration cards and doing some surveys but, due to competitive reasons, don't want to release that data.  

BILL FERNLY: Okay and on the direct versus indirect percentages, can you provide those on the end market sales and if you could add any color on what percentage was Apple.com?  

FRED ANDERSON: Sure. I will do that. First of all, we define direct sales to U.S. education customers, sales to our retail stores and directly to customers on the internet. We were very pleased by the results in the December quarter. Direct revenues were 43% of our total, up from 36% in the year ago quarter. I won't give you a quantitative percent but our internet sales were up appreciably.  

BILL FERNLY: Okay and then one last question for you on the peripheral attach you had mentioned before, could you give any color on either revenues or whether the bulk of the peripheral attach was sold with MacIntoshes or what percentage might have been sold stand alone to Macintosh customers after the sale or after they already owned a MacIntosh? Thanks.  

FRED ANDERSON: He's asking about sales, Gary?  

GARY LITSWORTH: Sure. Our non CPU sales, percent of revenue very strong, 37% of total revenues, that was up from 25% in the year ago quarter. The biggest single category was the phenomenal performance of iPod which comprised 13% of our total revenues. In the other products all combined were 24%. I don't have statistics that I can quote for you about when these products are being purchased with CPUs but we and our channel partners are focused on attaching iPods and Apple and display and other products developers make at the point of sale.  

BILL FERNLY: Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go now to John McKeefe with Seminole Capital Partners.  

JOHN MCKEEFE, ANALYST, SEMINOLE CAPITAL PARTNERS: Thank you. Again on the PowerMacs, could you normalize the numbers or tell us what the sell through was of PowerMacs in the September versus December quarter because I think you said it was up on a sell-through basis, sequentially. If you can't give me the numbers, maybe you can tell us how much it was up on a percentage basis?  

FRED ANDERSON: Sell through was up at a double digit rate.  

JOHN MCKEEFE: Sequentially?  

FRED ANDERSON: Yes.  

JOHN MCKEEFE: So what were the weeks of inventory in that product at the end of the September quarter versus December quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: I don't have that in front of me. Here's the issue: Whenever you introduce a new product, right, typically what you do is you have the channel prior to doing that and your first quarter when you introduce a new product, you have to provide some channel fill to get your inventory up to an acceptable level, right? So you would have that in addition to us bringing down the channel inventory from the September quarter to the December quarter, you would have had the benefit to the September quarter of the channel fill.  

JOHN MCKEEFE: Okay. So could this mark the low point maybe for EpowerMac sales going forward, we have the Japanese fiscal ending this quarter and we have the new store there?  

FRED ANDERSON: I'm sorry, I am not going to get into projecting product family unit sales by quarter. The only thing, again, I'll reiterate is we believe that we can sustain our EpowerMac sales on a quarterly basis at about 200,000 units. Some quarters it will be a little higher and some quarters it may be a little lower.  

JOHN MCKEEFE: Okay, that's fine and I just have a quick follow-up on interest and other income which had been running at about 25 million. It stepped down this quarter except for the one-time gain on the [Achemi] shares. Shouldn't that come back up or is that going to stay down at these levels going forward for modeling purposes?  

FRED ANDERSON: Gary, you want to take that?  

GARY LITSWORTH: Sure, I would be happy to. Actually, when it was up around $25 million, interest rates were higher, they were up over 2% if you go back a year, year and a half ago. Over the last year, interest rates have been much lower, running in the 1-1.25% range. Our portfolio is kind of short right now because we think that interest rates are about ready to go back up and if interest rates do go back, you'll see OINE rise with that.  

JOHN MCKEEFE: Alright, thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, John. Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: And we would like to remind everyone, if you have a question, press the star key followed by the digit 1 on your touch tone phone. We'll go now to Steven Fortuna with Prudential.  

STEVEN FORTUNA, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: A couple of short ones. First, I know you guys have an initiative going on to try to find lower cost rates to produce the Macs and, over time, help build more gross margin. How are you making progress on that, if you could give us a little bit of perspective on that? Then second would be, I guess, guiding to 27-28% gross margin this fiscal year, how do you think about the longer term gross margin for the company, more toward the 28 level or is that getting too aggressive? Lastly, going back to pricing which we believe was extremely aggressive led by HP being very market share driven, I know you can't really quantify it but a sense of the market impact you suffered from HP's pricing relative to the switchers campaign or trying to win over first time buyers and do you feel comfortable with your current price structure for your product portfolio?  

FRED ANDERSON: Last one first, we feel comfortable with the pricing of our current product portfolio. You know, we kind of have our own customer base and I don't mean to tell you that we aren't affected somewhat competitively by pricing actions by others but not to the degree of the rest of the Intel world because we have our own Macro S platform. So, I don't have the foggiest idea whether there was any impact from HP or not. My gut tells me, there wasn't.  

In terms of gross margin outlook over the next several years, we've said 27-28% is our goal to manage gross margins in that range. Last year, we were exactly 27.5% composite for the full year. We're guiding to 27.5 this quarter. So, somewhere in the middle of that range is probably as good a guesstimate as any. I don't know what you're talking about on this first question on, we haven't said anything publicly about any project on reduced costs, I don't know what you're referring to.  

STEVEN FORTUNA: I thought there was some initiative ongoing relative to finding ways to, you know, use lower cost components in the Mac and just, essentially, find lower cost ways to build the machines. I thought that was something that was being talked about or at least, partially underway. That's not correct?  

FRED ANDERSON: No, what I would tell you is that our engineering teams and operations are always, you know, looking for ways to deliver the quality product to our high standard specs as low a cost as possible. Beyond that, I don't know of any special project, just an ongoing objective here.  

STEVEN FORTUNA: Okay, thanks, Fred.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Steve. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: And we'll take our last question today, last question we have from Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Thank you, a couple of things. On the balance sheet, the inventory days were up a bit and that's retail stores, do you have a target where that's going to level off in term office days and what that means for cash conversion cycle? Secondly, just wanted to see, was there anything really surprising to you this quarter in terms of up side and down side? I think your iBook was up pretty substantially, I don't know if you planned for that to be the case?  

FRED ANDERSON: I would say that the positives were some over performance on the iPod. The record sales on the PowerBook and we had a great quarter, as expected, on the upgrade sales with Panther. Those would be the three highlights I would mention. Second question you had?  

KEVIN HUNT: Just on the balance sheet?  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, I'll ask Peter to address that.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Kevin, on the inventory was up 33 million, roughly two-thirds of that increase was in the stores and about a third was in our Distribution Centers. I don't want to get into giving a specific dollar target on inventory, going forward. We are typically keeping two to three weeks of inventory in the stores. The other factor that contributed positively to cash generation in the quarter and our cash conversion cycle is DSO. It actually was a company record of 27 days, driven by two things, first the quarter was very linear as you expect in the Christmas quarter and also, the higher direct sales played into that as well.  

FRED ANDERSON: And I'd like to pick up on that. I would add to the three I gave you. We had an even better quarter than expected on the part of our own retail stores, so our retail division did a phenomenal job and say the same thing about our Apple online store. Both, we had a higher percent of direct business than I think we expected and they both turned in outstanding quarter performance, both those groups.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Recording of today's call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days beginning at about 5:00 P.M. Pacific time today. The number for that replay is 719-457-0820 and the confirmation code is 316102. A replay of the audio webcast of this call will also be available beginning at about 5:00 Pacific time today at  www.apple.com/investor and will remain available for approximately 12 months. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896. Financial analysts can contact Joan Huber or me with additional questions, Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I am at 408-974-5420 and thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: And this does conclude our conference call for today. We would like to thank for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2004, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2004 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2004 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc | hewlp : Hewlett-Packard Company
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document FNDW000020040128e01e0015t
  


 HD
 Q4  2003 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,318 words
   PD
15 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: We are currently collecting additional participants and should be underway momentarily. We appreciate your patience. Please stand by for the Apple Computer, Inc. conference call.  

The Apple Computer, Inc. conference call will begin momentarily. We're about to begin.  

   TD
Good day, welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss fourth quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded.  

At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I'll turn the call over to the Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance, Nancy Paxton.  

Go ahead, ma'am.  

NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you.  

Good afternoon, thanks for joining us everyone.  

Apple issued its fourth quarter earnings press release at approximately 1:30 Pacific time today and the earnings press release and financials are available on first call as well as Apple's website.  

Speaking today is Apple CFO, Fred Anderson. He'll be joined by senior VP of Finance, Peter Oppenheimer, and VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary (inaudible) for the Q & A session with analists.  

Please note that some of the information during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, capitalized research and development expense, taxes, products, Apple's retail initiative and net earnings.  

Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast and for more information, please refer to pages 39 through 47 of Apple's latest form 10Q for the quarter ended June 28, 2003.  

Please also note that should non-GAAP financial measures be included in today's call, such information should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, Apple's GAAP results.  

While we do not anticipate providing non-GAAP measures other than those included in the earnings press release, should we provide others, a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP measures will be posted at Apple's web site at  www.Apple.com/investors. In connection with FCC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the internet, and with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Fred Anderson.  

FRED ANDERSON, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy.  

We're very pleased with the results of our fourth fiscal quarter, which exceeded our guidance.  

Revenues of $1.175 billion were up 19% year-over-year and represented Apple's highest quarterly revenue in three years. Net income was $44 million, or 12 cents per diluted share. These GAAP results include an after-tax investment gain of $6 million, a favorable accounting transition adjustment of $3 million related to Apple's stock re-purchase agreement, and a gain on settlements of the stock re-purchase agreement of $6 million. Without these items, earnings would have been $29 million, or 8 cents per share.  

We sold 787,000 CTU units during the quarter, an increase of 7% over the year-ago quarter. Strong sales of beyond-the-box items, including iPods, iSight Cameras, Apple Care and Displays contributed to the difference between the revenue growth of 19% and CTU unit growth of 7%. Ending channel inventory remained within our target range of four to five weeks.  

In terms of products, our Mac sales rebounded to 221,000 units (inaudible) -- driven about the -- by the success of Power Mac G 5. All three Power Mac G5 models are now shipping in volume. Portable sales remain strong. Power Book shipments reached an all-time quarterly high of 176,000 units. New 15-inch Power Book introduced last month has been very well received by our customers. The iTunes Music Store in our new third generation iPods continue to gain momentum.  

We set another record for our iPods sales this quarter with 336,000 units sold, accounting for $121 million in revenue. Since the introduction of the new iPods and the iTunes Music Store in April of this year, Apple has continually held the number one spot among MP3 players sold throughout U.S. travels tracked by NPD Tech World.  

Over the last few quarters, we have focused on expanding our worldwide iPod channels beyond our traditional Mac resellers, and we expect to have over 8,000 store fronts and several key internet retailers selling iPod for the holiday season. And tomorrow Apple plans to announce more exciting news about our music efforts.  

It was also a great quarter for the Apple retail stores with the retail segment achieving its first profitable quarter. We opened six stores during the quarter, ending with 65. Store revenues jumped to $193 million, up $48 million from the June quarter. With an average of 63 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store increased to $3.1 million, up from $2.6 million per store in the June quarter.  

The retail segment profit was $1 million, which does not include the associated manufacturing profit of $35 million. Traffic through the stores continues to be strong on a total basis, as well as on a same-store basis. A total of 4.3 million people visited our stores during the September quarter, compared to 3.1 million in the June quarter.  

We are extremely pleased with our two high-profile stores. The first high-profile store, which is located in the SoHo District in New York was opened in July of 2002. The SoHo store continues to show impressive year-over-year growth in both revenue and traffic.  

Similarly, our store in Chicago on North Michigan Avenue is off to an excellent start. Traffic in Chicago is the highest of all of our stores and sales are growing. During our first full quarter, we saw over 375,000 visitors in Chicago alone.  

We now expect to have a total of 73 stores open by Thanksgiving this year, compared to 50 stores open last Thanksgiving.  

In addition, we are planning to open our first international store in Tokyo, Japan, before the end of the calendar year. This will bring our total stores open at the end of the calendar year to 74 stores, compared to 51 stores open last year. We continue to be very pleased with the progress of our retail strategy.  

I'd like to now turn to education.  

Our total Education channel unit shipments declined 15% from the year-ago quarter. We experienced widespread weakness in K-12, due in part to what we believe was reluctance of school districts to spend their budgets during the first quarter of their fiscal year, given the uncertain funding environment. One-to-one initiatives continue to be our strength and our focus. We believe that one-to-one deployment is the future of education and that Apple is uniquely positioned to win a large number of these initiatives.  

In higher education, we've experienced our strongest quarter in seven years on the strength of our new Power Books and our new Power Mac G5.  

Turning now to our (inaudible) graphic performance. Japan units were up 27% year-over-year. Europe units were up 16% and Asia-Pacific units were up 11%. Unit shipments in the America's segment and retail segment combined were up 2% year-over-year.  

Now, let's talk about gross margin.  

Gross margin was 26.6%, down 110 basis points from the June quarter, as expected. Primarily due to increased air freight associated with Power Mac G5 and the iMac. Operating expenses were $425 million, $5 million higher than expected due to higher research and development expense associated with the products we ramped during the quarter, as well as higher sales and marketing expense associated with higher revenue.  

Additionally, in accordance with generally-accepted accounting principles, we capitalize $14 million of software development expense related to Panther, our fourth major release of Macro S-10.  

Other income and expense was $24 million, including $8 million in recognized gains from the sale of (inaudible) shares and $6 million in gains related to Apple's forward stock re-purchase agreement. The tax rate for the quarter was 25% of pre-tax income, compared to our guidance of 28%. The difference is solely attributable to the fact that the $6 million gain on settlement of the share re-purchase is not taxable.  

Turning now to the balance sheet.  

Cash was up $25 million sequentially to $4.566 billion. This represents a total fiscal year 2003 cash increase of $229 million. We continue to be pleased with our working capital management. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were $58 million, including $32 million for our retail store initiative. That brings total fiscal year '03 capital expenditures to $164 million, including $92 million for retail.  

We added to our major product accomplishments in the September quarter, starting with the successful launch of the long-awaited Power Mac G5. With the availability of all skus of the Power Mac G5, Panther, and key applications like QuarkExpress 6 and PhotoShop 7, we believe we are very well poised for a strong upgrade cycle from our professional customers. In the fourth quarter, we also introduced faster, flat-panel iMac and refreshed the iPod lineup with 20 and 40 gigabite models.  

We introduced a wireless key board and mouse and launched a new 15-inch Power Book along with faster 12-inch and 17-inch Power Books. We expect that Panther will begin shipping on October 24th and we are very enthusiastic about our strong lineup of products as we head into the holiday quarter.  

Looking ahead to the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of information that Nancy referred to in the Safe Harbors Statement at the beginning of the call.  

On a sequential basis, we expect revenues to increase to about $1.9 billion. We expect a 50 basis point increase in gross margins to about 27%, due to stronger Macro S-10 sales. We expect operating expenses to increase by about $30 million, driven by increased seasonal advertising and promotion spending, increased retail store expenses, as we open more stores this quarter, and the (inaudible) of the capitalization of Panther expenses.  

We expect other income and expense to be slightly below $10 million due to lower interest rates on our investment portfolio, and we expect the tax rate to be 28%. As a result, we expect a slight sequential increase in GAAP earnings relative to the September quarter.  

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir.  

Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. If you'd like to ask a question, please press the star key, followed by the digit 1 on your touch-tone telephone. It if you're using a speaker phone, please make sure you turn off your mute function to allow your signal to reach our equipment.  

We'll take the questions in the order they are received and will take as many as the time permits.  

Again, that's star 1 to ask a question. We'll pause for just a moment to assemble a roster.  

We'll take our first question is from Rebecca Runkel with Morgan Stanley.  

REBECCA RUNKEL, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon, Fred, how are you?  

FRED ANDERSON: Great, thank you.  

REBECCA RUNKEL: Good.  

Just a couple of quick questions, and I apologize, I jumped on a few minutes late, so I may have missed something, but just to begin with, as it relates to iTunes and iPods and iPod and the iMusic initiative -- any commentary about economics in the quarter as it relates specifically to iTunes? And then, with you care to comment on strategically how you're thinking about attacking the fourth quarter, given that you're seeing increased competition from various Windows players?  

Obviously you've got the Windows launch later on this week, but any additional color you can put on it in terms of how you're thinking about this competitively.  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, first of all, let me say that we're extremely pleased by the results of the iPods sales during the quarter. You know we had another record quarter, which I think is you know, kinda' phenomenal that we were able to drive $121 million in revenues and I believe it was 336,000 iPods sold during the quarter.  

I think Apple has clearly established itself as the number one selling MP3 player with its iPod in the marketplace, and you know, we think that the announcements that will be made at the event tomorrow are just going to continue to strengthen our presence in terms of the whole music area.  

I'm going to leave any update on the statistics relative to iTunes to Steve Jobs at the event tomorrow. So I'm not planning on giving any update on that today, but we're just extremely pleased.  

It's true, there's a lot of competition coming in terms of the music store and other MP3 players, but it's clear to me that we have the leadership position in both those areas and Apple is committed to maintaining that leadership position, so it's certainly be happy to have a further, more in-depth discussion about this after the event tomorrow, but I'm gonna leave any further comments until after tomorrow.  

REBECCA RUNKEL: Perfect.  

And then any additional clarity that you can share in terms of how you're looking at supply going into the fourth quarter?  

We've picked up data points over the last couple weeks. We're constrained on various components, I was curious if you could comment on that and how you're locking in supply for the fourth quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: You know, I think we certainly anticipate the normal tightening that you have during the holiday season, but we're confident that we're well positioned with our suppliers to support the guidance that we gave of $1.9 billion in revenues.  

REBECCA RUNKEL: Great, and then last one, I promise.  

G5, do you have a unit breakout in terms of the various models and what percentage of each shipped during the quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: We are not planning for competitive reasons to get in a breakdown by SKU. What I would say again that we achieved 221,000 units in terms of sales of the Power Mac total during the quarter. We are extremely pleased with that. I think that was up from about 126,000 in the June quarter.  

And the other thing I would say is we noted particular strengths at the very high end of the top duel processor 2 GHz G5 as well as the entry level G4 Power Mac at $1299 also remains very strong.  

REBECCA RUNKEL: So the G5 is particular strength at the high end (inaudible) processor. That should both well with the fourth quarter.  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, we're still trying to catch up with demand there. I would tell you we saw very strong demand at the high end.  

REBECCA RUNKEL: Perfect. Thanks so much Fred.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Rebecca. Can we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: We'll take Richard Gardner from Smith Barney.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA, SMITH & BARNEY: Hi Fred. This is actually Cynthia Hiponia (inaudible).  

How are you?  

FRED ANDERSON: Fine, Cynthia Hiponia.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Good, I have a few questions.  

I know Rebecca touched on supply, but there's some incremental data points we're hearing that there may be easing on TFT pricing heading into December.  

If you could kinda' comment on what your expectations are there? I book sales -- I know that you said education was disappointing with regard to one-on-one deployments, but was there another factor? Are you intentionally drawing down inventory there?  

And finally, just on the channel inventories by product. Anything unusually high or low above or below in that four to five-week range you've put out? Thank you.  

FRED ANDERSON: I'll take the education one and then I'll leave the components and channel inventory to Peter to answer.  

In terms of education, let me first characterize the -- what I'll call the education bind season, which runs as you know, from April through September. So I want to look at that full six-month period. We actually were down only 5% during that six-month period. As you may remember last quarter we were up 5%. So looking at the total six months, meaning our third fiscal and fiscal fourth quarter, we were down year-over-year in units, sales and education by 5%.  

We don't have the final market share of data and won't for several weeks from IDC, but I would tell you that we think we held our own and that what we're seeing in the K-12 area is you know, K-12 ends at fiscal budget year in June, so we saw reluctance on the part of many school districts to want to spend in any significant way during the first fiscal quarter, meaning the September quarter of their new fiscal year. Given the funding constraints that they're dealing with -- particularly in large states with large budget deficits, such as California.  

And so you know, although we closed you know, several deals -- I think it was maybe six above a thousand units during the quarter and there were probably another 20 to 25 below a thousand units, and we continued. There was a reluctance for you know, any big deals to close during the quarter this early in the fiscal year with the funding challenges. So, that's kinda' K-12.  

Relative to higher ed, again, I would reiterate that we had our strongest quarterly performance here in higher ed in the last seven years, so we were very pleased by the strength of higher ed, but that wasn't enough to make up for the weakness during the quarter of K-12.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: So for the iBooks, sequential decline is mainly due to the front-end loaded nature of the selling season?  

FRED ANDERSON: I would attribute it mainly to the weakness in K-12, where that is a particularly strong product.  

(GARY WISTLER), APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Fred, we also sold a lot of 12-inch Power Books too.  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, that's also true. To Peter's point, I think there was cannibalization also from the 12-inch Power Book. You saw we kind of had a record quarter with the Power Books. So Peter, want to take the other question?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, VP OF FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Your channel inventory and flat-panel pricing. Starting with channel inventory. As we discussed last quarter, we decreased the Power Mac G4 inventory in preparation for the launch of the G5 this quarter.  

The G5 ramped in volume in September and the inventory was up slightly in weeks from the June quarter. However, weeks of inventory for the Power Book and iBook were down, and as Fred said in his prepared comments, we were within the four- to five-week target in total.  

In terms of flat-panel pricing, we see demand exceeding supply in the quarter as seasonal shipments for the holidays will increase and TV shipments are up as well. So, our view is that pricing for some panels will be up from where we exited the fourth quarter, and some may not be.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Thank you.  

One final question. Fred, I know in the last call someone had asked about on the iPod sales Windows versus Mac and you explained since they're sold in the same shrink wrap case, you don't know until they actually register.  

Do you have updated information -- doesn't have to be current as of this quarter, since obviously they are in shrink wrap cases, but we haven't had any data points there in a couple quarters now. Do you have any updated information on that profile?  

FRED ANDERSON: No, but let me tell you just briefly, last time we had separate SKUs, I think it was the March quarter, running at about 50/50. We are now in the process you know, with the about three months of data of reg cards trying to get a handle that would be statistically significant.  

We don't yet have anything to report to you, but what I would believe is that with the increased emphasis on the Windows side and with the announcements of tomorrow, that you know, over time we should see the mix begin to shift more toward Windows, but I don't have any data to share with you today.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Great. Thanks, Fred. Thanks, Peter.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Cynthia Hiponia. Could we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Hi, Fred, how are you?  

FRED ANDERSON: Good.  

KEVIN HUNT: Couple follow-up questions, actually.  

On the flat panel display, can you maybe quantify what impact that would have on margins? Given you were talking about the pricing being a little higher.  

And secondly, on the education, just to clarify that, you obviously had a strong last quarter sounds like in education, so is it just that the shift from the higher ed to more of the K-12 this quarter, is that really the reason for the decline? And one other final question on the -- maybe you said this earlier -- can you update the number of iTunes, downloads, what it is kinda' running on a quarterly or monthly basis at this point?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, the last public announcement we made on iTunes is that we were running at about 500,000 songs per week. And I'm not gonna give you any update.  

Again, I don't want to steal Steve's thunder for tomorrow. So.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay.  

FRED ANDERSON: Relative to flat-panel displays, impact on margins -- what I would tell you is that you know, we took into account the normal holiday trends relative to component costs, and you know, we're anticipating the increases in the areas such as flat panel displays that Peter mentioned, and that's factored into our gross margin guidance that we have given.  

We would have expected a greater rebound in gross margins than the 50 basis points that we guided to had it not been for the seasonal influence of component cost increases. We factored that in. So we feel comfortable that we've been conservative in taking that into account.  

You had a question on education.  

I think I covered that, but looking at the third and fourth quarter combined, the so-called education season from April through September, we would have had a 5% year-over-year decline in units sales.  

And I think that when we get the final numbers from IDC, again, this is just a belief at this point, I don't have hard data -- that that's probably not gonna be that different from what happened in the market. And it's our hope and expectation that we pretty much held market share, and I think it's a funding environment issue that we're facing you know, in the entire industry.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay, but is that -- I mean, last quarter it seemed like the education was strong, like it had been rebounding. Is that just a function --  

FRED ANDERSON: I think there were two things. As we mentioned last quarter, we had the main one-on-one initiative that, as I recall, was 17,000 units?  

(GARY WISTLER): 16.  

FRED ANDERSON: 16,000, okay. So that would have been in the June quarter, and we didn't have any big deals, as I mentioned, this quarter.  

(GARY WISTLER): I would add to that additionally that in June many of the schools had the end of their fiscal year, so they had funding deadlines and really a requirement to use the budget dollars that were still available. Many fiscal years just opened up in July and some of the schools may be saving some of their budget dollars for the end of the year to see how the year will work.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay, thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Andrew Neff with Bear Stearns.  

ANDREW NEFF, BEAR STEARNS: I was gonna ask a question on the the iPod that maybe you could address. As you look out beyond the current quarter, any sense about what the seasonality trends might be given the mix of products that you have and given the ramp products that you have?  

FRED ANDERSON: Sure, Andy, I'm going to interpret, you mean the current quarter as the past quarter of September, and what I would tell you is that last year I think the industry saw about a 50% increase for the holiday quarter, meaning the December quarter over the September quarter.  

And our experience was pretty consistent with that. I think we went from 140,000 units to around 219. Somebody can check that, but that's my recollection. So we saw about a 50% increase in unit sales last year ourselves.  

ANDREW NEFF: And what about -- just in general, as you look at the balance of the year beyond -- you gave first quarter, looking beyond that, any sense about seasonality will be -- have a bigger factor beyond the first quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: You know, we haven't seen any pronounced seasonality, other than the December quarter. I don't know that I could characterize any differences among the March, June, and September quarters. I mean, in fact, you know that we reported 304,000 unit sales in the June quarter and we had a slightly better September quarter with 336,000 units, so I wouldn't characterize that there was any significant seasonality in the other three quarters.  

ANDREW NEFF: Okay, thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy.  

Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go to Charles Wolf of (inaudible) and Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, NEEDHAM & CO.: Ah, yes, I have a couple of questions.  

In terms of the iPod lineup, which model is the most popular one? That's my first question.  

Second question is do you have any same-store growth numbers for the Apple stores that have been open longer than a year? And a third question I have is, I did notice that Virginia Tech established a super computer using Power Mac processors. I was wondering if that was one reason you had such high sales and higher education? And along with that, did that computer -- was that completed in time for the 500 series?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, let me just for those that aren't familiar -- Virginia Tech basically purchased 1100 Power Mac G5's, combined those to create a super computer, really, of national prominence, and I think it's been written up at a fraction of the cost of a super computer. I haven't gotten an update of specifics, on that, so you know, we'd have to follow up if you're really interested in how that's developing and get an update. I don't have that.  

The second question I think you had was on same-store sales. And what I would say is that we are not reporting, although we are capturing internally same-store sales information.  

What I did indicate in my opening comments was that the average revenue per store for the -- I believe it was 65 stores on average that were open during the quarter -- was $3.1 million, compared to $2.6 million average revenue per store for the June quarter. So there was a sequential increase in that regard.  

Peter, you want to take the iPod question about mixed?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure.  

Charlie, all the models are popular, for competitive reasons, we won't disclose the exact mix, but from the data sheet, we provide that the average AFP was $360, so that will give you some idea of what the average was.  

CHARLES WOLF: So that's a wholesale price I assume?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: No, that was our revenue for both wholesale and direct sales -- channel margin.  

CHARLES WOLF: Fine, thank you.  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie.  

Can we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go to Bill Stanley with SGM Midwest Research.  

(GARY WISTLER): Go ahead.  

BILL STANLEY, SGM MIDWEST RESEARCH: Sorry.  

On the store within a store concept, can you give us additional color on how it's going with Comp USA and how the pilot is going with Best Buy and will it be expanded?  

(GARY WISTLER): On the store within a store concept, can you give us additional color on how it's going with CompUSA and how the pilot is going with Best Buy and will it be expanded?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure.  

We are pleased with our AFC programs around the world and we are looking for expansion opportunities in each GO. As we exited the fourth quarter we had slightly over 300 people in stores.  

As regards to Best Buy, we have a pilot going in 48 of their stores, where they are carrying a selected products. In some stores we have Apple badged employees and in other stores we don't have anybody. We are monitoring the results of the program carefully. It's been going for about 60 days, and at this point it's too soon to draw any conclusions.  

BILL STANLEY: Okay, and also on the direct versus indirect sales mix for the quarter, can you give additional color on that as well?  

(GARY WISTLER): Go ahead.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure, just to be clear, we defined direct sales as sales to U.S. education through our retail stores and over the internet store to end users. In our fourth quarter, 43% of the company's revenue was direct, and for the full fiscal year, it was 39%, which compared to 34% for fiscal '02.  

BILL STANLEY: Okay, thanks.  

And one last question for you.  

You had mentioned additional channels or expanded distribution for the iPod. Will you be opening up kiosks, infomercials, can you give any color of what alternative channels you'll be using to expand iPod distribution?  

FRED ANDERSON: I think they're pretty much in place for the holiday season right now. As you know, we're in Best Buy, Lowes, Circuit City, CompUSA.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: We have 8,000 points of distribution now worldwide, and many internet sites as well.  

BILL STANLEY: Okay, thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill.  

Could we have the next question please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go to Jacob Caldenbaum with Harvest Equity Research.  

JACOB CALDENBAUM, HARVEST EQUITY RESEARCH: Good afternoon.  

I have a quick question regarding your software category, and if you could provide any color about conversions from the free iMovie application to your final cup pro. I know it's been well received in the marketplace.  

FRED ANDERSON: What I would do -- if you're referring to the promotions we ran during the quarter, as I recall, our final cut sales were up about 15% sequentially from the prior quarter. So yeah, at the promotion we ran was very successful.  

JACOB CALDENBAUM: Okay. Thank you very much.  

FRED ANDERSON: You're welcome.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Jacob Caldenbaum.  

Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go now to with Fulcom Global Partners.  

ROB SERUM, FULCOM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi. Thanks very much.  

Two questions, on the G5 Power Mac, if your gross margins are -- where they stand relative -- I guess their historical range, given they were normally your highest gross margin, if they are now and if they're not, if you think they will be?  

And then completely separately, on the retail strategy you mentioned opening up your first international store. Is it reasonable to assume that looking over the next year or two, you'll probably open up international stores to kinda' parallel your U.S. stores in terms of your overall international revenue breakdown or is that going too far and is it more of a wait and see? Thank you.  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay, historically -- again, we don't give up gross margins by product line -- but I've said before, historically the Power Mac line has been our highest gross margin product family. However, as you know, we did a lot of air freighting of every Power Mac G5 during the quarter, and you have normal you know, inefficiencies with any ramp of a new product, so I would just say that our gross margins during the quarter on Power Mac were not up to the normal historical levels.  

Would you repeat the second question, please?  

ROB SERUM: Just on your retail strategy, if opening your first international store now, if we can kinda' expect you to open international stores over the next year or two at kinda' the rate you did in the states and get to maybe something that parallels your international revenue breakdown? Or are you taking it more as a wait-and-see kind of strategy?  

FRED ANDERSON: What I would say is all I have to share with you again today was an update that we're extremely excited about our Tokyo, Japan, store opening that will open before the end of the calendar year.  

We have a huge installed base of -- particularly in the consumer market in Japan. And we're excited by that. We don't have anything to share with you beyond that. I think we'll proceed internationally very slowly and take it one at a time here. The only thing we have committed right now is what I've reported to you an update on today, which is the first international store in Tokyo.  

ROB SERUM: Great. Thanks very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob.  

Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: As a reminder, star 1 to signal for a question.  

Now Jon Horvath (inaudible) from Lehman Brothers.  

JON HORVATH, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Congratulations to a nice quarter, guys.  

(GARY WISTLER): Thank you!  

JON HORVATH: I'm just wondering, previously when we had the G4 Power Mac refresh cycle, I think we got up to an average of 3.43(inaudible)K units per quarter for several quarters. I'm wondering if now that you've got September behind you, you've seen a little bit of October, I'm wondering if you have any sense of where that's gonna pan out a decent unit run rate for the G5 going forward, or sorry, for the Power Mac with G5 and G4 included going forward? If it's gonna be you know, 250-K, 350K. I know 350's probably a lot to ask for.  

FRED ANDERSON: I'll stay with what I said before. I stuck my neck out last quarter and said that our goal was to return our Power Mac line, which had been running you know, at around 150,000 before. In fact, last quarter it was below that level at 126,000. I said I thought we would be able to, on a sustainable basis, drive our Power Mac volume back up above 200,000 units, and we did it. In fact, we did 221,000.  

I'm not gonna stick my neck out again to raise the bar on that one. I think we'll take it a quarter at a time. The product line has been incredibly well received in the market. Higher ed is excited, our creative customers are excited by the performance of the product, business is interested in it, and scientific and technical particularly, and I just related earlier about Virginia and them building a super computer based on it, so I'm gonna let the results kinda' lead here and not go beyond telling you that I think we can sustain it above 200,000 units a quarter.  

JON HORVATH: Fair enough.  

Thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Jon Horvath.  

Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: The next question is from (inaudible) of Lehman Brothers.  

DANIEL NILES, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Sorry, we're at different sites.  

Anyway, I'll take my shot at a similar question.  

I guess around the Power Macs, Fred, you talked about air freighting, hitting your growth profit and margins. Did you quantify that at all in terms of how much it affected it during the quarter and then just a follow-up on something different.  

FRED ANDERSON: We didn't quantify it for you, but you know, I will tell you it was significant. And we've guided gross margins up by 50 basis points for the December quarter from the September quarter, and we're confident that we can achieve that.  

DANIEL NILES: Now, does that assume like similar levels of air freighting expense, or does it --  

FRED ANDERSON: We're gonna continue to air freight quite a few products, including some continued air freighting on the high-end SKU of the Power Mac line, where we're not yet caught up with demand, but we're certainly hopeful it will catch up during the quarter and so we're gonna continue on that high end SKU air freighting it, and you know, there may be some other products during the quarter, but I'm not prepared to talk about future products.  

DANIEL NILES: The G4, G5, you obviously came in higher than the 200,000 you were thinking about you know -- if I look at the quarter, should I attribute that to G4 maybe didn't drop as fast as you thought or you know, you air freighted enough where you got more G5?  

FRED ANDERSON: I would say that the low end of the G -- low-end SKU now that we have one G4 SKU, which is at $1299 in the Power Mac line. That held up very well.  

It's a great value for the price-sensitive buyer, and I will tell you that we also had very strong sales of the high-end Power Mac SKU, in terms of the G5.  

DANIEL NILES: Have you said anything about cut over G5 versus G4 units and when you think that might be?  

FRED ANDERSON: No, we're very you know, enthusiastic as our customers are about the current line up of our Power Mac line, which includes one G4 SKU and three G5 SKU.  

DANIEL NILES: Thanks, Fred.  

FRED ANDERSON: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Dan.  

Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll take the final question from Bill Parami with SGM Midwest Research.  

BILL PARAMI: Thanks. Just one follow-up question on end user markets.  

Can you give additional flavor on the higher-end education market? The mix of notebook versus desk top and also additional color on student versus institution purchases?  

Thanks.  

FRED ANDERSON: I believe -- first of all, let me say for education overall, I believe it was 46% the mix -- 47%? 47% was the unit mix of portables in education overall. And what I recall was that the Power Book was particularly strong in higher education.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: And the G5 did well --  

FRED ANDERSON: I'm sorry, did I -- did we fully answer your question there? Do you want to follow up if there's something we've missed?  

BILL PARAMI: I actually had a question as well on the product mix, yes, but on the student versus institution purchases in the market. Can you give additional color on that?  

FRED ANDERSON: The student purchases were strong in the quarter. And that's on a relative basis, maybe stronger than the institution.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: The institution and high ed did well for us --  

FRED ANDERSON: Was your question particularly just for higher ed?  

BILL PARAMI: Yes, it was.  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, higher ed had our best quarter in seven years, so I would say -- I agree with Peter that institution and individual were very strong, they were both very strong.  

Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill.  

I would like to remind everyone that Apple will be hosting a financial analyst meeting at our Cupertino headquarters on November 5th from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. If you would like to attend and haven't responded, send an email to Hoover1 at Apple.com.  

A recording of this call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days beginning at 5:30 p.m. Pacific time today. The number for the replay is 719-457-0820. The confirmation code is 799253 and a replay of the audio webcast of this call will be available beginning at approximately 5:30 Pacific time today at  www.Apple.com/investor, and that will remain available for approximately 12 months.  

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Steve Dowling at 408-974-1896.  

Financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan's at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420.  

Thanks again for joining us  

OPERATOR: That concludes today's conference.  

Thank you for you participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031029dzaf001e4
  


 HD
 Q3  2003 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,285 words
   PD
16 July 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss third-quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded.  

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions I'll turn the call over to the Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance, Ms. Nancy Paxton. Please go ahead, ma'am.  

   TD
NANCY PAXTON, SENIOR DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us.  

Apple issued its third-quarter earnings press release at approximately 1:30 p.m. Pacific time today. The earnings press release and financials are available on Firstcall, as well as Apple's web site. Speaking today is Apple CFO, Fred Anderson, and he'll be joined by Senior VP of Finance, Peter Oppenheimer, and VP and Corporate Treasurer Gary Whistler for the Q&A session with the analysts.  

Some of the information you'll hear consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, capitalized research and development expense, taxes, products, Apple's retail initiative, and net earnings. Actual results and trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to pages 35 through 44 of Apple's latest Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2002.  

Please also note that should non-GAAP financial measures be included in the call, such information should be viewed in addition to and not in lieu of Apple's GAAP results. While we do not anticipate providing non-GAAP measures, should we do so a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP measures would be posted on Apple's site at  www.apple.com/investor.  

In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analysts call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the internet. And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Fred Anderson.  

FRED ANDERSON, EVP, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Thank you, Nancy. Fiscal Q3 was an excellent quarter for Apple, both in terms of new product announcements and business execution. We're especially proud of our results against a backdrop of tough economic environments.  

Revenues of $1.545 billion for the quarter were ahead of our guidance. We achieved our highest revenue level in 11 quarters, growing 5% sequentially and 8% year-over-year. Earnings per share were five cents, compared to consensus expectations of three cents.  

We sold 771,000 CPU units during the quarter. Up 8% sequentially, down 5% from the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year unit decline was more than offset by higher average revenue per systems sold, a function of strong sales of portables, iPods, and displays. Ending channel inventory was down by about 11,000 units sequentially. And was within our target range of four to five weeks.  

In terms of products, both iBooks and Power Books continued to sell very well. Portable products represented a record high 46% of all MacIntosh systems sold during the quarter.  

Desktop products were down, especially iMacs. We sold 287,000 iMac units compared to 378,000 in the year-ago quarter. Our Power Mac G4 sales continued to be very soft with 127,000 units sold. A function of both continued poor business conditions for many of our professional customers, and our management of channel inventory in anticipation of updates to the Power Mac product line.  

A major highlight of the quarter was the April 28 introduction of the iTunes Music Store and our new third-generation iPods. We sold over five million songs through the iTunes Music Store during the quarter and have sold over 6.5 million songs to date. We are extremely pleased with the success and critical acclaim that the iTunes Music Store has achieved in such a short period of time.  

It was a recordbreaking quarter for iPod sales. We sold 304,000 units, up from 80,000 units in the March quarter, and 54,000 units in the year-ago quarter. As Steve Jobs announced at our worldwide developer's conference a few weeks ago, Apple shipped its one millionth iPod during the quarter. Through the end of fiscal Q3, Apple had generated revenue on 984,000 of these units. The balance of which included such items as seed and demo units, as well as inventory in our retail stores.  

It was also a great quarter for the Apple retail stores. We opened six stores during the quarter, ending with 59, and we opened three more stores early this month for a current total of 62. Store revenues were $145 million, up $10 million from the March quarter, and ahead of our expectations. With an average of 55 stores open during the quarter, average quarterly revenue per store was $2.6 million. The retail segment loss narrowed to $2 million from $3 million in the March quarter. And the manufacturing profit was $25 million.  

Traffic through the stores continued to be impressive. And was ahead of year-ago numbers on a same-store basis, driven by strong recent interest in music and the new iPods. A total of 3.1 million people visited our stores during the quarter. Based on our most recent wave of customer research, about 50% of customers buying Mac systems in our stores did not currently own a Mac.  

The retail segment's quarter culminated in the highly successful opening of our North Michigan Avenue store in Chicago on June 27. Tomorrow, on the 21st day of operation of this store, we expect to receive our 100,000th visitor, that's 18 days ahead of of the date we achieved the same milestone at our Soho store in New York City.  

Early results from the Michigan Avenue store, coupled with the success we have experienced from our Soho and L.A. growth stores, give us high hopes for our San Francisco and Tokyo stores due to open in 2004. We expect to have a total of 70 stores open by Thanksgiving this year, compared to 50 as of last Thanksgiving.  

We are very pleased with our results in the U.S. education market during the quarter. Our unit shipments were up 5% over the year-ago quarter. While IDC has not yet released its results for the June quarter, its most recent published forecast projects a 19% market decline for the quarter, suggesting a healthy market share increase for Apple, relative to the year-ago quarter.  

Our focus on mobile computing was a key contributor to the successful results of our education business this quarter. Portables accounted for 47% of our total U.S. education units, propelled by larger one-to-one deployments in a variety of institutions across multiple grade levels in both rural and suburban settings. We also improved our education market coverage model during the quarter by adding approximately 60 education agents who began selling our solutions to selected institutions.  

In terms of geographic performance, U.S. business was strongest. The Asia Pacific region was negatively impacted by the SARS virus, and Europe and Japan continue to suffer from relatively weak economic condition.  

Gross margin was 27.7%, down 60 basis points from the March quarter. And operating expenses were relatively even with the March quarter numbers at 419 million as expected.  

Other income and expense was 17 million, including 2 million in gains on sales of Apple's remaining holdings in Arm and Earthlink. The effective tax rate was 28%, consistent with our guidance. In terms of the balance sheet, cash was up by $19 million sequentially to 4.545 billion. This represents a fiscal year-to-date increase of $208 million.  

We continue to be pleased with our working capital management, particularly around accounts receivable and inventory. As expected, sales days outstanding increased sequentially from 30 to 33 days, due to seasonably strong education market buying in the month of June. Inventory declined sequentially from four days to three days.  

The June quarter was an impressive one for Apple, with the announcement of several outstanding new products. In addition to the iTunes Music Store and the new iPods, we introduced a new version of Final Cut Pro. We also introduced iChat AV and the iSight Video Camera, and we provided a preview of some of the 100-plus new features of Mac OS X Panther, the fourth major release of Mac OS X.  

And of course, we announced the new Power Mac G5, featuring the world's first 64-bit desktop processor. We believe that the new G5s coupled with the availability of Quark Express 6, are laying the foundation for future growth in Power Mac sales.  

Looking ahead to the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of information that Nancy referred to in the safe harbor statement at the beginning of the call.  

On a sequential basis, we expect a high, single-digit percentage increase in revenues and a slight increase in earnings. We expect a sequential decline in gross margin percent of about 100 basis points due to lower operating system sales and ramp expenses associated with our new products.  

We expect operating expenses to be about $420 million, which excludes approximately $10 million of capitalized costs related to development of Mac OS X Panther, which we publicly demonstrated at our developers conference last month. We expect operating other income and expense to decline to about $10 million due to lower interest rates on our investment portfolio, and we expect the tax rate to continue to be 28%.  

With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. If you'd like to ask a question, please signal by pressing the star key, followed by the digit one on your touchtone telephone. If are you using a speakerphone, please make sure your mute function is turned off to ensure sure that your signal will reach our equipment. I'll be taking the questions in the order that you signal. And we'll take as many questions as time permits. Once again, that is star-one to ask a question. I'll pause for just a moment to assemble our roster.  

We'll take the first question from Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley.  

MAX GROSS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: This is actually Max Gross calling for Rebecca. Just had a couple of questions, if I may, about gross margins. A little bit about your guidance. I was wondering what you were expecting in the component environment and what you saw in the component environment in the June quarter. If you could tell us about that a little bit.  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay. Peter, you want to take the question on the component environment, both for the June quarter and going forward for the September quarter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER, SVP FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Sure. As we -- the last quarter I gave you three areas of commentary on what we expected for the third quarter. And component costs came in as we anticipated. LCD prices did tighten, as we anticipated in the quarter. We anticipated that memory prices would trade in a very tight range, and they did. And we also anticipated that other commodity prices would experience normal rates of decline, and for the most part, that happened.  

As we look forward to the fourth quarter, we see an upward pressure on memory prices driven largely by strong demand in notebook and server products against the backdrop of minimal capacity expansion. We expect CFT prices have peaked, and we think that all other commodity prices will fall at rates consistent with historical trends.  

MAX GROSS: I just had another question on the software and services business.  

FRED ANDERSON: Sure. Go ahead.  

MAX GROSS: That revenue line, it's been tremendous in the last 12 -- last 12 months, up about 29% to the previous last 12 months. And just wonder if you could give a little bit more color on what's going on in there. I mean, it's really kept going after Jaguar. I noticed more Apple applications. Just wondering if you could give a little more color detail on that particular line segment.  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, our Mac OS X sales remained strong in the June quarter. And secondly, we had the new release of Final Cut Pro, which also contributed significantly to our software and other revenue.  

Is there anything else you want to add?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I would just add that in our retail stores, sales of [INAUDIBLE] and third-party products did well, in addition to what Fred mentioned.  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay.  

MAX GROSS: All right. That's all, thanks a lot.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Max. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Richard Gardner with Smith Barney.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi, Fred, Peter, it's Cynthia. How are you?  

FRED ANDERSON: Good, Cynthia  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Good. I was hoping you could comment a little on exiting the quarter, your comfort level on the inventory of the Power Mac G4s. I know you're already taking preorders on a G5. Any color on the profile of the single versus the double CPU? I noticed on the site, I guess the G5 dual was a top-selling item. Then I had an iTunes followup question.  

FRED ANDERSON: Let me take the channel inventory. We feel good about where we ended the quarter on channel inventory. As I indicated on the preamble to the call, we actually decreased from the end of last -- from the March quarter to the end of the June quarter, our total global channel inventory by 11,000 units. We remained well within our, you know, target of four to five weeks of channel inventory.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: So on the G4, you're also comfortable?  

FRED ANDERSON: Very comfortable. That was probably the largest single contributor in account, as far as I can recall, for the full, almost the full 11,000 decline. And that's one of the reasons that we've reported weaker than otherwise would have revenue units for the G4 Power Mac, because we did take down the channel inventory in anticipation of announcing the G5.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Great. And any profile on G5 preorders, at all?  

FRED ANDERSON: Gee, the customer response has been strong. They certainly believe that, you know, it's going to be a great product, and has a great potential for enhancing their productivity.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Great. And on iTunes, you've given detail before on sale of albums versus individual songs. I'm curious if you can detail maybe your latest weekly run rate.  

FRED ANDERSON: Now, I -- you know, I don't want to say anything beyond what I did. Is that, you know, we've now sold over 6.5 million songs, and don't really want to get into breaking down albums versus songs.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Okay. And did you -- had you disclosed iPod Window versus Mac for the quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: I did not. And in fact, we really don't have that information today, because, as you know, the shrinkwrap iPod you buy has both the iTunes software for the Mac, as well as Music Match Software, right, for Windows. So we don't know until they register, right --  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Got it --  

FRED ANDERSON: Which one they are.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Great. Then last question on education. The one-on-one deployments you did this quarter, were they -- how were your actual account wins or was it deployment of older account wins, Fred, in the school systems?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, we shipped the second half of the main order for iBooks in the June quarter. I think we started the Schaumburg, Illinois deployment. Still quite a bit to go on that, but we did start that. And then there were a couple of other minor deployments, which, you know, basically we haven't announced publicly.  

CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Cynthia. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: The next question is from Michael Hillmeyer with Merrill Lynch.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, Fred. Couple of questions, none of which you might actually answer. But maybe I'll get lucky.  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, try anyway.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Of course. The first is in regards to the profit structure for iTunes song sales. I think you said, you know, back when you introduced the new product, iTunes Music Store, you said at some time down the road on a conference call you would talk about that. If you would, that would be great. If not, I understand.  

And then, any color on when the Windows version of iTunes might be showing up? That's the first question.  

Then the second one is Power Book mix, any color on the 12-inch versus the 17-inch sales there?  

Third one, Panther, is that going to support 64-bit apps?  

FRED ANDERSON: Panther, what was the question?  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Will Panther, will that support 64-bit apps?  

And then the last one is, what do you think you can do to, sort of, you know, get the iMac back on track or, you know, cheaper prices or newer products there?  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay. Wow, you asked a lot of questions --  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: And then you probably won't want to answer some of them. That's okay.  

FRED ANDERSON: No. I -- I'm going to surprise you a little bit. In terms of the -- basically you asked me about the profit structure on iPods?  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: No, on the iTunes, the song sales.  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. Well, basically, as you know, the iTunes Music Store, this was our first quarter, right, introduction. It might surprise you that we were very close to breaking even in our first quarter of the iTunes Music store.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Okay.  

FRED ANDERSON: That was your first question.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: And any idea like what your general gross margin is on those?  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, I'm not going to get into that. Sorry.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Okay.  

FRED ANDERSON: In terms of the Windows version, still on track to, you know, be launched before the end of calendar year.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Okay.  

FRED ANDERSON: In terms of Power Book mix, I don't know that we want to get into, for competitive reasons, giving you, you know, breakdown by mix. I'm sorry. I just don't think it's a good thing for us to do.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Okay.  

FRED ANDERSON: In terms of Panther, again, I'm not the technology guy. But it's my understanding that, you know, it will support 64-bit apps.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Okay. Cool.  

FRED ANDERSON: And your last question on the iMac --  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Yeah?  

FRED ANDERSON: You know, it's -- I think what's been happening -- I'll just make a couple of comments. Is that, first of all, the flat-panel iMac is in its sixth quarter, right, since being introduced. And, you know, it's still performing well. But, you know, there's, clearly, a shift going on in the marketplace, not just for Apple, to portables from desktops.  

And then finally, what I would say is that, you know, its price point starts at $1299. So, I think it's capturing a fairly significant and reasonable market share in its price band.  

MICHAEL HILLMEYER: Okay. Cool. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Michael. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Kevin Hunt with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Thanks. I want to follow up on the comment about the laptop shift, Fred. Clearly, your business shifted that way pretty heavily this quarter. But wondering how much that was just, like you said, because of, maybe, G4 being kind of weak. And how much was due to you pushing the laptops into the education market? I mean, can you, kind of like, give us what your outlook is longer-term of what you think the shift is --  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, I harken back to Steve Jobs' statement at Mac World, San Francisco, in January when he said that this was going to be the year of portables for Apple. You know, clearly, it is a strategic focus for Apple, overall. And clearly, a focus of our education business, which we're extremely pleased by the, you know, the 5% year-over-year unit sales growth in education, in a very tough funding environment today. And we attribute, you know, a significant part of that result to our one-on-one initiatives in putting a portable in the hands, you know, for districts that see the benefit of enhancing the learning process and improving test scores, and putting a portable in the hands of every student and every teacher.  

So clearly, I think those are contributing factors. But then you've got, kind of, a macro industry phenomenon here in that there is a general movement to portables from desktops. I think with the size of LCDs and portables today, there are people who are buying them as replacement for desktop systems. So I think all of those factors are contributing to it. And clearly, we had a record quarter with 46% of our total sales, unit sales being portables.  

KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Also, can I followup on the earlier -- the iTunes question? Can we assume that the information you gave on the call is all you're going to give, any commentary on profitability of that business or outlook for it, anything like that?  

FRED ANDERSON: As I said, we, in our first quarter of having the music store open, we were close to break even.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Now we'll go to Andrew Neff with Bear, Stearns.  

ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & COMPANY: Sure. If I could just a question on the international and mix. It looks like the international year-over-year was fairly soft in the growth in the Americas, could you go into more of what's going on internationally and maybe outlook for that?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, here's what I'd say. If you go back to the prior year, as I recall, 42% of our sales were to international, compared to 39% of this quarter. And I'd say this is probably the low point in mix of international sales, typically because of the strong education quarter in the U.S.  

But then I would combine that with saying that you've got a relatively economy in both Japan and Europe, as well as, although I think this isn't as significant, and the least important factor, you had the effect of SARS in certain Asia Pacific markets.  

ANDREW NEFF: Okay. Then a followup just in terms of -- I know you said you, sort of, didn't want to address this. In terms of iTunes, can you give us any sense about how, you know, any way that we can factor into our expectations?  

And another question in terms of iPod ASP. Can you give us an order of magnitude of what we should look for for that?  

FRED ANDERSON: I'm sorry, the first was on iTunes?  

ANDREW NEFF: On iTunes, just trying to understand the economics of that.  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. Well, here's the thing. You know, clearly, you know, we're addressing a minority part of the market today of 5% or less, right, with it only being available on the Mac platform. Window users today cannot access our music store. By the end of the calendar year, you know, because we're courting iTunes software to Windows, then, you know, all of those other 95% of the Windows world are going to be able to access our music store.  

And, not only can they buy music, right, in terms of the songs or albums, but they can also have that experience and say, you know, I love the music store. I think I want to take my music library with me on the road. And so, we think it will be a Trojan horse for people even buying more on the Windows side of our iPods.  

And then lastly, which is less certain, over time, they love the experience of not only our music store, but our iPod, then they may the next time they decide to buy a second or third computer for their home, they may decide to buy Mac. So, we think that there is a synergistic effect there.  

ANDREW NEFF: [INAUDIBLE] songs, is there any way we can go through the economics of what Apple -- what the contribution is?  

FRED ANDERSON: For competitive reasons, we [INAUDIBLE] know that. I just don't want to do that. I'm sorry.  

ANDREW NEFF: And just on the iPod ASPs, any order of magnitude of what that is, or --?  

FRED ANDERSON: Peter, you want to comment on it?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think for competitive reasons, we don't want to comment, because that would, honestly, Andy, give our mix away, which we don't want to do right now.  

ANDREW NEFF: Okay. Thank you, gentlemen.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll go now to Bill Finley with STN Midwest Research.  

WILLIAM FRIENDLY, ANALYST, STN MIDWEST RESEARCH: Good afternoon. A couple of questions for clarification on the new G5. I know we've asked the backlog question. What type of ramp are you folks expecting in terms of when first bulk shipments will arrive, when demo units will be in the stores? And what about meeting up with the seed unit demand before actual units hit the stores?  

FRED ANDERSON: Peter, you want to answer that?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. As Steve commented, at the developers conference, we expect to begin shipping in the month of August. And we expect August and September to be busy months.  

WILLIAM FRIENDLY: But in terms of understanding that you need to put in demo units, seed units. You also need to feed units to the developer community. Any additional flavor on when they'll be in stores? After the initial demand of all the other folks is taken care of?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Many of the areas that you mentioned we give the first production unit off the line to. Such as seeds and developers. So -- and press. They tend to get them first. And then we get them into the channel, and to the customers' hands as quickly as we can.  

WILLIAM FRIENDLY: Okay. Followup question on software. You had mentioned Quark Express, specifically. Any additional flavor on how it's been selling in the stores or apple.com?  

FRED ANDERSON: Don't have any data available to report to you today on that.  

WILLIAM FRIENDLY: Okay. And then one last followup on the apple.com question. Can you give any addition flavor or details in terms of on-line sales for the latest quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: Want to take that, Peter?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. No -- just to be clear, through the -- are you talking about direct sales or sales through the store, including channel orders?  

WILLIAM FRIENDLY: Direct.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. We measure direct, including education, our internet direct sales to businesses and consumers, and the Apple retail stores, and that number for the third quarter was 42%, which was up from 36% in the year-ago quarter.  

WILLIAM FRIENDLY: Okay. And one last question on portables. You had mentioned in the previous call, that you had left the previous quarter with a fair amount of backlog coming into the current quarter. Can you give any details on what the backlog was on the new 12- and 17-inch coming into the quarter? On the new Power Books?  

FRED ANDERSON: Again, for competitive reasons, we don't want to go into that. I'm sorry.  

WILLIAM FRIENDLY: Okay. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Jonathan Geurkink with Ragen MacKenzie.  

JONATHAN GEURKINK, ANALYST, RAGEN MACKENZIE: Yeah, hi. Most of them have been answered. Just, any sense for gross margin on the G5 machines? If you could give us any color there, range, what have you?  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, again, I'm going to have to give you, "I'm sorry" again. I don't want to go, for competitive reasons, into giving gross margins on our various product line.  

JONATHAN GEURKINK: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thank you, Jonathan. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Charles Wolf with Needham & Company.  

CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: I'm going to try to ask a question you might answer this time.  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay, Charles.  

CHARLES WOLF: Be the first time in a year, but -- I --  

FRED ANDERSON: Don't take it personally.  

CHARLES WOLF: No, I don't. I don't. But, I have, sort of, one-part, two-part questions. What was your head count at the end of the quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay?  

CHARLES WOLF: That one's easy.  

FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. And I'm going to throw that one to Peter. What's your second question?  

CHARLES WOLF: How many employees do you have full time equivalent in the Apple stores now?  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay. Well -- while Peter's looking for that, I'm going to give you an approximation. I believe that we have over 1,200 full-time equivalents in our Apple retail stores.  

CHARLES WOLF: So that's part of SG&A in terms of expenses?  

FRED ANDERSON: That's correct.  

CHARLES WOLF: Now, can we infer from your guidance, your revenue guidance for the September quarter that the orders for the G5 are pretty strong?  

NANCY PAXTON: Charlie, could you repeat that question, please?  

CHARLES WOLF: You know, you're guiding a fairly aggressive increase in revenues, sequentially, at least from June to --  

FRED ANDERSON: Sure --  

CHARLES WOLF: Can I infer from that that the orders for the new G5 are pretty strong?  

FRED ANDERSON: Let me tell you where I think, qualitatively, the growth is going to come from.  

CHARLES WOLF: Yes.  

FRED ANDERSON: Okay. I think, clearly, the G5 Power Mac line and associated displays, that's the first big driver of growth. I think we're going to achieve, secondly, some good growth in our retail business, our Apple retail stores. They have more stores open, and they're planning on opening, you know, more this quarter. And then you've got the back-to-school season that will help there, too. And then I -- we expect another continued strong, you know, result in terms of sales from our portables and our iPod business.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. And do you have that total head count number?  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, we had a little over 10,500 permanent employees. And a little under 2,000 temporaries.  

CHARLES WOLF: Okay. Thanks, Peter.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thanks, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Once again, if you'd like to ask a question on today's conference, please press star one on your touchtone telephone.  

And we go now to Kevin McCarthy with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

KEVIN MCCARTHY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Yes, hi. Thanks. Fred, I noticed that your op ex grew -- will grow probably around 8% versus 7% revenue growth this year. Is it fair to think, going forward, that you guys are going to map your operating expense growth to revenues within the ballpark, or can we look forward to another cost reduction initiative at some point in the future to start to see some better operating profit growth on your revenues?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, I think there's going to be operating margin expansion, to your point. I think what you're seeing is that, you know, if you're growing a company, let's say, like in 2002 we grew 7% and, you know, we're on track to, you know, have a similar year this year, right? In terms of growth year-over-year.  

And, obviously, our goal, and, obviously, this is not a forecast, but our goal would be, as we look to 2004, would be to see if we can't accelerate, you know, our growth. And if you can accelerate the company's growth to a double-digit growth level, again, conceptually, there should be some good operating margin expansion. You're beginning to see our operating margin climb up when the first time in a few quarters when we were actually making money at the operating line before, you know, the interest income, right?  

And so, bottom line is that the other thing you've got to consider is that the growth in operating expenses are heavily coming from our new retail stores we're rolling out, which hit the SG&A line, right, mainly selling expenses, with now over 1,200 employees in our retail stores. That's been, you know, a vector that's causing our operating expenses to go up.  

On the other hand, there's a favorable impact on gross margins from our retail stores because you eliminate the channel margin. So, but having said all of that, I look prospectively as we're able to, you know, hopefully increase the top-line growth rate to see some nice operating margin expansion.  

KEVIN MCCARTHY: Great, thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: The next question is from Richard Chu with S.G. Cowen.  

RICHARD CHU, ANALYST, S.G. COWEN: A few quick questions. First of all, with Power Mac and with G5, how realistic is it to think in terms of getting back, over time, to the 300,000-per-quarter levels that you had some years back? Or have the market dynamics, really, semi-permanently changed that that you really don't think that will ever happen?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, you know, it's going to be kind of a hybrid answer here. If you go back three years ago, I believe it may have either been the June or September quarter of fiscal 2000, we hit around 351,000 units of Power Mac sales, I'm speaking from memory here. But I think that's close --  

RICHARD CHU: Yes.  

FRED ANDERSON: And I don't think we're going to get back to that level, to start the answer, because what's happened since then is, you had this big movement toward portables, right? And you now see Apple with this incredible 17-inch Power Book, which, obviously, is very attractive to some people in the creative market sets, for example, the professionals, that previously would want a Power Mac system.  

On the other hand, you know, we've dropped down this last quarter below 150,000. So we're less than half where we were three years ago. And clearly, I think the G5 Power Mac is going to rebound. The question is, how much? I don't think it will go back to 350,000 a quarter. Do I think we can get it north of 200,000? Absolutely.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. That's helpful. And second, if I can follow on, you were about to comment on iPod profit structures. And the question shifted to iTunes. Could you go ahead and expand on that, and, as you do that, can you also comment on whether iPod lead times have changed in any fashion as you traversed through the June quarter.  

And somebody asked the question about Windows version. Can you have -- do you have any indication from USB downloads of what the Window mix might have been?  

FRED ANDERSON: Yes. I don't want to get into, you know, profit margins on our iPod any more than, you know, I do in any of our other products. Other than to say we're very satisfied with the margin level, and, you know, it's slightly below what our overall, you know, hardware gross margins for the company are. But at very acceptable levels.  

In terms of lead times on the iPod, you know, we had difficulty keeping up with demand last quarter. Peter, I don't know if you want to give any more color on iPod lead times. But --  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Richard, I'm not sure I understand your question on lead times. Could --  

RICHARD CHU: I was wondering whether the dynamic [INAUDIBLE] lead times could come back to normal as you exited the quarter?  

FRED ANDERSON: I think he's asking, in other words from the time of order to shipment, you know, what are we -- if we were quoting x number of weeks before on an order, what are we quoting how? I think -- is that what you're asking?  

RICHARD CHU: Yes, yes.  

PETER OPPENHEIMER: Okay. Throughout our third quarter, we were constrained on the iPods. Sales were just phenomenal. We were working as hard as we could all quarter to keep up with them.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. Any indication, again, on the Windows mix by USB downloads?  

FRED ANDERSON: Uh -- no.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. And then finally if I can -- I promise this is the last one. On iTunes on Windows, did you -- can you talk about how you might price that, if at all?  

FRED ANDERSON: No. Not only do we not talk about future products, but we don't talk about future prices.  

RICHARD CHU: Okay. Thank you very much.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll return to Richard Gardner with Smith Barney.  

RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi. Just a followup question. We just got off the IBM call, and they were a bit light in the microelectronics area. And they talked about some yield issues on their new process, which the G5 is being built on. And I'm just wondering how concerned you are that you might not be able to take care of demand for the G5 product in September. And I think given the revenue outlook to an earlier question, you need a pretty nice sequential uptick in G4, G5 shipments this quarter to hit that revenue expectation. So any color on that would be helpful.  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, obviously, whenever you ramp a major new product like the G5 Power Mac, there are always schedule risks associated with that. But having said that, we have a lot of confidence in IBM's manufacturing capabilities.  

And as we previously stated, we expect to begin shipping the Power Mac G5s in August. Whether or not we're going to be able to, you know, keep up with demand, and whether availability of the microprocessor will be sufficient to meet demand, I can't tell you sitting here today.  

RICHARD GARDNER: All right, Fred. Thanks.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Denise Parmigiani with Fulcrum Partners  

TED PARMIGIANI, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi, my question's, actually, already been answered. Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Okay. Thanks. Could we have the next question, please?  

OPERATOR: We'll move on to Jacob Calderon with Harvest Equity Research.  

JACOB KALTENBACH, ANALYST, HARVEST EQUITY RESEARCH: Hello, gentlemen, gentlewoman. Wanted to ask about international retail stores and when we would begin to see some major efforts in that area?  

FRED ANDERSON: Well, we have previously announced that we're planning to open, early next year, our first store in Japan, in Tokyo on the Ginza.  

JACOB KALTENBACH: Okay. My second question was regarding, do you guys -- have you announced, or are you planning to announce, any products that will address the new home multimedia gateways that are now being contemplated in the industry for the Christmas season?  

FRED ANDERSON: Sorry, again. We just don't talk about future products.  

JACOB KALTENBACH: Okay. Thank you very much.  

FRED ANDERSON: Thank you.  

NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Jacob. And thanks to everyone for joining us today.  

A recording of this call will be available for replay via telephone for seven days beginning at 5:30 p.m. Pacific time today. And the replay number is 719-457-0820. Confirmation code is 337741. And a replay of the audio webcast of the call will also be available beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. Pacific time today at  www.apple.com/investor. And that will remain available for approximately 12 months.  

Members of the press with additional questions can contact Lynn Fox at 408-974-6209. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover, or me, with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570. And I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020030730dz7g005lh
  


 HD
 Q2  2003 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
5,873 words
   PD
16 April 2003
   ET
09:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to this Apple computer conference call to discuss second quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. 

 At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to the director of investor relations and corporate finance, Ms. Nancy Paxton. 

   TD
 Please go ahead. 

 NANCY PAXTON, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER INCORPORATED: Thank you. Good afternoon to everyone. And thank you for joining us. Apple issued its second quarter earnings press release at approximately 1:30pm Pacific time today. And the earnigns press release and financials are available on FirstCall as well as on Apple's website. 

 Speaking today is Apple CFO Fred Anderson. And he'll be joined by senior vice president of finance Peter Oppenheimer and vice president and corporate treasurer ((Gary Litsworth)) for the Q&A session with analysts. 

 Please note that some of the information you will hear during this call cosists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, income and expense, taxes, products, research and development, Apple's retail initiative, and net earnings. 

 Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to pages 35 through 44 of Apple's latest Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2002. 

 Please also note should non-GAAP financial measures be included in today's call, such information should be viewed in addition to -- and not in lieu of -- Apple's GAAP results. While we do not anticipate providing non-GAAP measures, should we do so, a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP measures will be posted on Apple's website at www.apple.com/investor. 

 In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet. 

 And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Fred Anderson. 

 FRED ANDERSON, CFO AND EXECUTIVE VP, APPLE COMPUTER INCORPORATED: Thank you, Nancy. 

 We're very pleased to report that despite an increasingly challenging and unpredictable environment, Apple generated revenues of $1.475 billion in our second fiscal quarter. 

 Net income was $14 million or 4 cents per diluted share. 

 These GAAP results include a 3 million pre-tax charge related to previously announced restructuring activities. These results are consistent with our guidance of flat sequential revenues and a slight profit. 

 Apple shipped a total of 711,000 CPU units during the quarter. A record 42% of units shipped were portables, boosted by the success of our new 12-inch and 17-inch PowerBooks. Though overall unit shipments were down 13%, higher average selling prices resulted in revenues that were about even with the year-ago quarter. 

 Average revenue per system jumped above $2,000, driven by a greater percentage of beyond the box sales, especially software and displays, as well as the richer mix of portables. Software sales in particular were boosted by the addition of Keynote, iLife, and Final Cut Express. 

 We ended the quarter with less than 4.5 weeks of channel inventory, well within our target range. 

 In terms of CPU's, we shipped 256,000 iMacs. Of that total, 41,000 were the classic CRT iMacs, 86,000 were eMacs, and 129,000 were flat panel iMacs. IBook sales were down slightly from the year-ago quarter due to some cannibalization by the new 12-inch PowerBook. Sales of PowerBooks surged to 166,000, driven by strong demand across the board for all three models. 

 The 12-inch PowerBook, the smallest full-featured notebook on the market, received very favorable reviews and was the most popular of the three PowerBook models, with 82,000 units sold. 

 The 15-inch G4 titanium remained a very popular model, with 70,000 units sold. 

 And while bookings for the new 17-inch PowerBook were strong, shipments began later than we had anticipated. And we were only able to ship 14,000 units, ending the quarter with a substantial backlog. We are now through the manufacturing ramp and are quickly catching up with orders. 

 Sales of Power Mac G4's continue to be sluggish despite price performance improvements during the quarter. Including servers, we shipped 156,000 units, which was sequentially flat, but down 26% from the year-ago quarter. We believe the creative segment continues to be especially hard hit by the weak economy. 

 We shipped a total of 78,000 iPods in the quarter, almost half of which were Windows units. 

 Our retail -- Apple retail stores had a great quarter. We opened two stores early in the quarter, bringing the quarter-end total to 53 stores. Apple retail store revenues were $135 million, down seasonally from $148 million in the December quarter -- as was expected. 

 We achieved average revenue of 2.6 million per store during the quarter, flat with the year-ago quarter. The retail segment loss was $3 million. The manufacturing profit associated with the retail segment was 23 million. And this has been excluded from the segment results. 

 Our traffic records indicate that over 3 million people visited our retail stores during the March quarter for an average of about 4400 visitors per store per week. And our most recent research indicates that about 50% of customers buying systems in our stores don't currently own a Macintosh. We are targeting to have about 70 stores open by the end of this calendar year. Included in the next wave of store openings will be our third large format store, which will be located on Michigan Avenue in Chicago. 

 The U.S. education market continues to experience funding pressures as a result of the large budget deficits in many states. Our CPU unit sales through the U.S. education channel were down 14% from the year-ago quarter. But portable shipments in education remain a bright spot for us. In the March quarter, 39% of our education unit shipments were portables, well above IDC's U.S. education segment average forecast of 21% for the March quarter. 

 The 10 for Teachers program has been a great success. Since introduction of this program, we have put over 400,000 copies of OS X in the hands of K12 and higher education teachers. 

 Turning now to gross margin. Apple's gross margin was up 70 basis points from the December quarter to 28.3%, primarily due to lower component costs and a stronger mix of portables and direct sales. Reported operating expenses were 422 million, including a 3 million pre-tax restructuring charge. Operating expense was slightly higher than our guidance due to the restructuring charge and stronger than expected foreign currencies. 

 Other income and expense was 23 million -- about 3 million higher than our previous guidance -- driven by higher than expected gains from sales of some available for sale investments. We are continuing to find it advantageous to close out on some of our longer term cash investments as we position our cash and investment portfolio toward shorter investment maturities. 

 The effective tax rate was 28%, consistent with guidance. 

 Turning now to the balance sheet, cash was up $64 million sequentially to $4.526 billion. That represents a fiscal year-to-date increase of $189 million. We are very pleased with our working capital management, particularly receivables and inventories. Consistent with a greater mix of direct sales and strong collections, day sales outstanding improved to 30 days while inventory remained lean at four days. 

 Looking ahead to the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of information that Nancy referred to in the safe harbor statement at the beginning of the call. 

 We expect revenues to be approximately flat with the March quarter. We also expect gross margins and operating expenses to be relatively flat on a sequential basis. We expect other income and expense to decline significantly to about $15 million. And we expect the tax rate to continue to be 28%. As a result, we expect a slight profit for the June quarter. 

 I'd like to close by saying that we are encouraged by the significant achievements we've made this quarter as we continue to innovate our way through these challenging economic times. We believe that our investment in research and development and our retail initiative will fuel future growth for the company. 

 With that, I'd like to open the call to questions. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question and answer session will be conducted electronically. If you'd like to signal to ask a question, you may do so by pressing the star key followed by the digit one on your touchtone telephone. Once again, that is star-one for a question or comment at this time. 

 And we'll pause for just a moment so everyone has a chance to queue. Our first question today comes from Michael Hilmeyer from Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead, sir. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Go ahead, Michael. 

 MICHAEL HILMEYER, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi there. Just wondering if the announcement that you guys made earlier this month about the stock options going over to restricted shares. Is that included in this -in your outlook going forward here? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, let me be clear. 

 MICHAEL HILMEYER: Sure. 

 FRED ANDERSON: There was a restricted stock grant to Steve Jobs that was announced. And then separately, there was an exchange program for our employees who held options of $25 or higher. And both of those events have been contemplated in our guidance. 

 MICHAEL HILMEYER: OK. Great. Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Dan Niles from Lehman Brothers. 

 DANIEL NILES, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Yes, hi. Fred, if you could talk a little bit about in your business kind of what you saw during the quarter? In other words, did you guys see some impact from the war? Could you sense that just by looking at sort of your run rate of business? And sort of how did it go going into it? And then kind of coming out of it? And I guess just sort of a general linearity question around that? 

 FRED ANDERSON: OK. As you might imagine, we're not able to separate the war impact from other geopolitical or economic impact. The only thing I can tell you is that we were very pleased that we met our guidance of flat sequential revenues. In fact, we were up 3 million from the prior quarter. And we delivered 4 cents in EPS which obviously was -- our guidance, it was 2 cents higher than FirstCall consensus. 

 And what I would say is that the consumer market on a relative basis remains the strongest for us. 

 Because of the budget deficits in states like California and the impact that they're having on funding of technology for education, I would say education remains a tough market as well as the creative markets for us, which are obviously impacted by creative businesses such as ad agencies and magazines being hard-hit during this economic downturn where there's been a cutback in advertising. 

 DANIEL NILES: Can I ask a follow-up? I mean, when you look at your mix of business, I guess, you know, obviously portables was increasing pretty rapidly. Could you give us what that mix was last quarter? 

 And then is there some target or do you have some sense on how that goes? In other words, just trying to figure out, do you anticipate that sort of keeping on improving? Or have you sort of gone to, you know, sort of a steady state? Or where is that level? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yes. As you know, 42% of our CPU units shipped during the quarter were portables, meaning the combination of the iBooks and the PowerBooks. And that was driven heavily in terms of the increase by the PowerBooks and the success of the new 12 and 17-inch models. 

 My answer would be that, you know, Steve believes this is going to be the year of portables for Apple. And I think we have a much higher mix of portables than the rest of the industry. 

 Where it ends, you know, in terms of its evolution, I'm not sure. Now, do you have what it was last year? 

 NANCY PAXTON: Sure. So in terms of the unit mix in the second quarter, iMac was 46%. Power Mac G4 was 26%. PowerBook was 11%. And iBook was 17% of units. 

 DANIEL NILES: OK. Great. Thanks a lot. 

 FRED ANDERSON: OK. Great. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take our next question today from Evan (sic) McCarthy from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead, sir. 

 KEVIN MCCARTHY, CSFB: The name is Kevin, Thanks. 

 Fred, can you talk conceptually about your subscription plans in terms of music? Is it something you feel you can just license? Or again, conceptually, do you feel this is something that Apple will spend capital actually on content, content of media properties of one form or another? 

 FRED ANDERSON: I don't have any comment on future products. I'm sorry. 

 KEVIN MCCARTHY: All right. Can I ask a follow-up? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sure. 

 KEVIN MCCARTHY: Can you talk a little bit about, again I'll frame it in kind of conceptual language, your process or strategy? 

 There's been some speculation as you guys become increasingly frustrated with Motorola's lack of commitment to Power PC, that you would consider moving to an Intel design. Can you just talk in a conceptual framework? Or is that something that you would consider at some point? 

 FRED ANDERSON: We have no comment again on future products or processor strategies. I'm sorry. 

 KEVIN MCCARTHY: You know, Fred, I'm running out of questions here. Can I ask one more then? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yes. Hopefully something about the quarter. 

 KEVIN MCCARTHY: Well, how many stores do you plan to open in the U.S.? And will you take it international this year? 

 FRED ANDERSON: As I indicated in the preamble, we're targeting 70 stores by the end of the calendar year. 

 KEVIN MCCARTHY: Any international plans? 

 FRED ANDERSON: We have not announced any plans to open any stores internationally. 

 KEVIN MCCARTHY: All right. I'm exhausted. Thanks, Fred. 

 FRED ANDERSON: You're welcome. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question comes from Rob Cihra with Fulcrum Partners. 

 ROB CIHRA, FULCRUM PARTNERS: Hi. Thanks very much. 

 I wonder if -- on the Power Mac, it seems like the momentum just doesn't want to improve there. I mean, you've added servers now. You refreshed or recently dropped prices. And yet it still doesn't really want to move. 

 You know, is there something fundamental here? 

 I mean, obviously the positive stuff is all in the notebook side. Is there something fundamentally that you think can change that Power Mac cycle? Or is it simply weakness in the customer base? Or do you think it's just something that you guys are just more and more suited to notebooks, differentiated notebooks? 

 FRED ANDERSON: I don't think it's -- I think it's a creative market weakness issue. We subscribe to independent research like Trendwatch. And all the data shows Apple with dominant market shares in the segments where we're focused on, you know, in the 60 to 80% range. They show that the business conditions are the worst that they've been. They survey every six months in the last seven years. And clearly, they show that the overwhelming majority of people who are going to buy in the next 12 months are planning to buy Macs. 

 And so what I really believe is that we've got to look for an upturn here in the economy that's going to cause our creative customers to stop deferring buying decisions, which are typically, you know, they buy probably every two to three years. And I think that they've just been deferring because of their own businesses being hard-hit. So that's part of it. 

 The second thing is it certainly would help for us to get Quark Express finally on the platform -- hopefully sometime in the future here. Native on Mac OS X, to be clear. 

 And then finally, I think, you know, as the performance improves in our Power Mac line, you know, the convergence of those factors will hopefully drive an upgrade cycle, and we think there's lots of pent-up demand there. 

 ROB CIHRA: OK. Great. Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. And before we take our next question, I would like to remind everyone how to queue for a question. Just press star-one on your touchtone telephone. 

 Next we'll go to Richard Gardner with Salomon Smith Barney. 

 CYNTHIA HIPONIA, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi, Fred. This is actually Cynthia. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Hi, Cynthia. 

 CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Good. I have two quick questions. One was, what did ((FPD)) pricing do in the March quarter versus December and what are your expectations for June? 

 And then the second question ... 

 FRED ANDERSON: I didn't catch the first piece. 

 CYNTHIA HIPONIA: Sure. How did you see ((FPD) pricing in the March quarter versus December? And what are your expectations for June? And then I had a follow-up. 

 FRED ANDERSON: OK. Peter, you want to take the one on ((FPD)) pricing? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER, SENIOR VP FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER INCORPORATED: Sure. At the end of the quarter, we saw flat panel pricing begin to tighten. There's a clear trend for people to buy flat panel displays versus CRT's, the trend going from notebooks to desktops and use in panels by non-PC products. So as a result, we've seen pricing there stay flat and actually begin to trend up a little bit on some of the sizes. 

 CYNTHIA HIPONIA: OK. And then you guys rolled some significant price cuts on the Power Mac in late January. Did you see any type of response? Or how was the linearity in the quarter in the Power Mac demand? 

 I know you said it was disappointing, but did the significant price cuts at all help? 

 FRED ANDERSON: I would say that we saw some significant elasticity of demand with the major price cuts we made in our displays, which obviously are for the Power Mac. 

 Do you want to add anything to that, Peter, in terms of the Power Mac line itself? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: No. I think sales just sustained at the general levels that we'd seen them. 

 CYNTHIA HIPONIA: OK. Great. Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Cynthia. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Next we'll go to Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Rebecca, could you speak up? You're coming across faintly here. We just can't hear you. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: Can you hear me now? 

 FRED ANDERSON: We can. Thank you. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: Sorry about that. Just a quick question on the U.S. education market. You were down 14%, you said, year on year. Give us some color in terms of what you think the overall market did -- IE, how did you fare in terms of market share? 

 And then I have a follow-up. 

 FRED ANDERSON: OK. Unfortunately we don't have any market share data yet, and yes, we were down year over year 14%, so I don't want to get into speculating what happened to market share. We'll certainly know when IDC publishes their market share information. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: And then as we look forward to the June quarter since it's such an important quarter for the education market, any color that you can provide in terms of what you're expecting and as far as normal seasonality or not, especially within the context of some of the current state and local government budgets that exist? 

 FRED ANDERSON: We're expecting a tough quarter, albeit that there will be some seasonal improvement as there always is. But on a year-over-year basis, we're planning some decline. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: And then ... 

 FRED ANDERSON: Because of the tough market condition. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: Particular to the state and local governments? 

 FRED ANDERSON: I'm speaking of education, yes. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: And then just quickly, as it relates to the retail stores. We were actually surprised, it didn't sound like you were but we were actually surprised that retail was down just 9% quarter to quarter, just given all the demand that you saw in the December period and given the holiday, et cetera. 

 So if you could provide any more color in terms of what you saw, if there were any particular trends, if you added additional programs. Anything that would help explain that? Because I thought ... 

 FRED ANDERSON: I'm sorry, could you clarify your 9% figure? 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: I think you said you were 148 in the December quarter and you did 135 this past quarter? 

 FRED ANDERSON: What are you taking, certain products? 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: No. Just looking at retail. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Oh, our retail stores. I'm with you now. I thought you were talking about retail as meaning consumer market. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: No, no, just your retail stores. Sterling and I were both very impressed by the performance in the March quarter and I just wanted to follow up on that. 

 FRED ANDERSON: You know, basically what we're seeing is that, you know, we continue, if you look at the secular trend line, you know, we continue to add stores and we continue to do extremely well with our retail store division. And as you commented in your observation, there wasn't a significant seasonal drop-off, you know, in our retail store business. The decline was very modest. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: But any perspective as to why -- you only added two stores, so, I mean, any color that you can provide in terms of why that was the case so that we can try to get our arms around that performance, because I would have certainly expected it to be a much weaker number in March ... 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, if you look at the average stores open for the quarter, there was more of an increase probably than that. In other words, more than just going from 51 to 53 stores. 

 So, I mean, one of the things you should look at is that we were --as I indicated in the preamble, that we did an average revenue per store of 2.6 million in revenues for the March quarter, which was consistent with the prior-year performance. 

 So one other thing that I might mention, we do have one area that's doing extremely well. And that's that we are having, as you probably know, on Tuesdays and Wednesdays these store nights at our retail stores where we invite in K12 school districts, you know. And they have the parents, you know, observe the achievements of the teachers and students that are presented using our technology. And I think we're now up to where we've done over 200 of those to date. And so I think that the tie-in of our retail stores both to education and small business is probably helping them. And they're doing that more than they were a year ago, when we were almost exclusively focused on the consumer market. 

 NANCY PAXTON: OK. Thanks, Rebecca. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. We'll take our next question from ((Howard Fleisher)) with Metropolitan West. 

 HOWARD FLEISHER, METROPOLITIAN WEST: Hi. Thanks. I'm a little confused. 

 Can you just tell me, have you released -- made any press releases today attributed to Steve Jobs regarding the rumors that are going around? I'm reading something that said that you did release a statement from Steve Jobs. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yes, we did. And I'd be happy to read the press statement from Apple. 

 HOWARD FLEISHER: OK. 

 FRED ANDERSON: "'Apple has never made any offer to invest in or acquire a major music company. The press statements this morning attributed to Vivendi board member Claude Bebear are not true, as Mr. Bebear has confirmed in a later report,' said Steve Jobs, Apple CEO." 

 We will abide by Apple's policy of not commenting on rumors. 

 HOWARD FLEISHER: OK. And can you then just sort of update on your internal policy and goals with respect to the cash that you have at your company, and it looks like you continue to generate even beyond working capital gains? 

 Thank you. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, we still have an outstanding authorization from our -- for our -- from our board for stock. I think it's $283 million. 

 And bottom line is that, you know, we continue to conserve our cash and we haven't made any buybacks under that authorization since as I recall September of 2001, and so, you know, we're very focused as a company on conserving cash. And, you know, we're proud that we've been able to increase our cash in short-term investments by $189 million in the first half of this fiscal year. And, you know, from time to time, it's always possible that we will execute some buybacks under the remaining authorization. 

 HOWARD FLEISHER: Is there anything that you can share with us regarding policies for acquisitions? Obviously not commenting on the current rumors, but just general -- generally what you might hope to accomplish by an acquisition of any kind? 

 FRED ANDERSON: You know, again, I don't want to comment -- just like we don't comment on products in the future, I don't want to go into comments on acquisitions or investments other than to say from time to time, the company over the last several years has made small acquisitions of particularly software companies where we felt there was a strategic fit, and that such an acquisition or investment could assist in the profitable growth of the company, and enhance shareholder value. 

 HOWARD FLEISHER: Do you have any criteria regarding dilution on cash flow or dilution earnings per share or any financial-type metrics that you could share when you look at acquisitions? 

 FRED ANDERSON: No. Obviously the first filter for any potential acquisition if we were to look at one would be, is there a strategic fit for the company. And then the second one would be, would it create positive financial returns and enhance shareholder value for the company over the longer term? 

 HOWARD FLEISHER: OK. Thanks a lot. 

 FRED ANDERSON: You're welcome. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Howard. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jonathan Geurkink with Ragen McKenzie. 

 JONATHAN GEURKINK, RAGEN MCKENZIE: Hi. I have a couple questions. First, what was the percentage of online revenue in the quarter? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Do you want to give that, Peter? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. It was 46% of our revenue, which was up from 41% in the year-ago quarter. 

 JONATHAN GEURKINK: Thanks. Second question, there's some chatter in the past couple weeks that you deauthorized a number of resellers as they refused to sign a new reseller agreement that came up due on March 31. I saw today that I guess Dell and Frye's and a couple of others are no longer deauthorized and so are going to continue to sell your products. 

 Do you have any comment there or help you can give us? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Peter, you want to take that one? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. As part of our regular renewal process with our authorized resellers, we invited our resellers to sign new agreements as of April 1, 2003. Resellers who have not currently renewed made up less than one half of 1% of our worldwide revenue in 2002. And since the contracts have recently expired, some contracts as you mentioned are being signed each day. 

 JONATHAN GEURKINK: So any change in the contract there, or who's coming back to the table, I guess? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: We've signed with all of our significant channel partners. 

 JONATHAN GEURKINK: So no change to the contract terms? 

 FRED ANDERSON: We don't want to get into discussing terms and conditions of our reseller contracts on a conference call. 

 JONATHAN GEURKINK: OK. Fair enough. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Jonathan. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Rick Chu. 

 RICHARD CHU, SG COWEN SECURITIES: That's OK. I withdraw. 

 OPERATOR: We would like to remind everyone that it is star-one for a question at this time. Next, we'll go to Bill Fearnley with Midwest Research. 

 BILL FEARNLEY, MIDWEST RESEARCH: Hi. Bood afternnon. It's Bill Fearnley Could you offer additional color on the Apple channel, particularly the store within the store initiatives in the U.S. and internationally? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sure. Peter, you want to take that? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Within the U.S., CompUSA continues to go very well. Beyond the box sales continue to increase and the customer experience has been strong. We're beginning to see the same results in Japan. We have approximately 75 people in resellers in Japan. Around that's one of the reasons why I think sales were up so nicely sequentially in Japan, was a result of that program. 

 BILL FEARNLEY: When you say there's 75 people in resellers in Japan, how many locations is that? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: It's less than the 75. I don't have an exact number. But some of the -- I think maybe in the 60s. 

 BILL FEARNLEY: OK. 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: We have several of the stores which are very large where we're putting more than one person. 

 BILL FEARNLEY: Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Bill. 

 OPERATOR: Sure. Next we'll take a question from Charles Wolf with Needham & Company. 

 CHARLES WOLF, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Hey, Fred. I found your guidance for the March quarter to be fairly aggressive given that it's typically down from December. And as I recall, June is typically down from March. Yet you're guiding flat, so I was wondering -- what you see that I don't see. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, I don't agree that normally we're down in the June quarter compared to the March quarter. And again, it will vary from year to year. But I would say generally, our December quarter is our strongest followed closely by the September quarter, even though in the last couple years, you can't just look at what I'm saying is the trends because there've been other anomalies that have occurred that would change that. 

 Then I would say the third strongest quarter would typically be the June quarter and the weakest quarter would be the March quarter. 

 And why do I say that? Well, the strongest consumer quarter is typically the December quarter. The strongest education quarters are the June and the September quarters. And basically the March quarter isn't strong typically for any of our businesses. 

 CHARLES WOLF: OK. Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Do we have any additional questions? 

 OPERATOR: I would like to give a final remind they're it is star 1 for a question at this time, and we'll pause for just a moment to make sure everyone got a chance to ask their question. It looks like we have no further questions, so I'll turn the conference back over to Ms. Nancy Paxton for any additional or closing remarks. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, very much. A recording of today's call will be available for replay by telephone for seven days beginning at 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today, and the number for that replay is 719-457-0820. The confirmation code is 208314. A replay of the audio webcast of this call will also be available beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today at www.apple.com/investor, and that will remain available for approximately 12 months. 

 Members of the press with additional questions can contact Lynn Fox at 408-974-6209. And financial analysts can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us. 

 OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call. And we'd like to thank everyone for joining us. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   AN
Document fndw000020030417dz4g001e1
  


 HD
 Q1  2003 Apple Computer, Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
8,373 words
   PD
15 January 2003
   ET
10:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Please stand by. The conference is about to begin. Good day and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss first quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the director of investor relations and corporate finance, Ms. Nancy Paxton. Please go ahead. 

   TD
 Nancy Paxton Thank you. Good afternoon to everyone and thanks for joining us. Apple issued its first quarter earnings press release and financials at approximately 1.30 PM Pacific time today and that is available on First Call as well as on Apple's Website. Speaking today is Apple CFO Fred Anderson and he'll be joined by Senior VP of Finance Peter Oppenheimer and Corporate Treasurer Gary Lipler for the Q&A session with the analysts.. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements regarding revenue, gross margins, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, products, research and development and net earnings. Actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information please refer to pages 35 through 44 of Apple's latest form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2002. In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure Apple is making this call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet. With that I'd like to turn the call over to Fred Anderson. 

 FRED ANDERSON, CFO AND EXECUTIVE VP, APPLE COMPUTER INC.: Thank you, Nancy. We are pleased to report that despite an environment that continues to be very challenging Apple generated revenues of $1.47 billion in our first fiscal quarter. Representing a 7% increase from The year-ago quarter. Our gap results reflected a loss of 8 million, or 2 cents per share. These results included a $17 million after-tax restructuring charge and a $2 million after-tax accounting transition adjustment. Excluding these nonrecurring items, earnings were $11 million or 3 cents per share. These results are consistent with our guidance of a slight sequential increase in revenues and a slight profit before nonrecurring items. In terms of geographies, America's revenue was up 5% year over year and Asia Pacific was up 27%. In the U.S., including the Apple retail segment, revenues were up 16%. In Europe, revenues were down 3% and in Japan revenues were down 24%. Apple shipped a total of 743,000 CPU units during the quarter. About even with the year-ago quarter. Although units sell-in was flat, we feel very good about our management of channel inventories which declined in the quarter by 11%. That left us with under four weeks on a trailing basis and about 4.5 weeks on a forward looking basis which puts us comfortably within our target range of four to five weeks. We also feel very good about generating a year over year increase in revenues on flat CPU sales, particularly in the current environment. This accomplishment is primarily a function of higher average selling prices and strong beyond the box revenue. The average selling price increase was due to a greater percentage of direct sales as well as a richer mix of products. You'll recall that in the year-ago quarter, we had not yet introduced the flat panel iMac. Average selling prices for the iMac family were $876 in Q1 of fiscal '02 compared to $1,195 in Q1 of fiscal '03. Beyond the box revenues represented 26.3% of total revenue and were boosted by strong sales of iPod -- iPod as well as software. In terms of CPUs, we shipped 298,000 iMacs. Of that total, 58,000 were the classic CRT iMac, 106,000 were E Macs and 134,000 were flat-panel iMacs. Customer response to the 17-inch flat panel iMac was very strong, and it was our most popular flat-panel SKU. The iBook continued to sell very well, stimulated by the new aggressive $999 entry-level price as well as the success of our 14-inch display best configuration. Sales of PowerBooks jumped back over 100,000 units as the new super drive model and more aggressive pricing drove increased demand for this product family. Reviews of the latest Titanium PowerBooks have been excellent. Sales of Power Mac G4s continue to be disappointing, including servers we shipped 158,000 units down 25% from the year ago quarter. We believe the sluggish economy continues to have a very negative impact on many of our creative professional customers, and our G4 sales in turn. We also believe that many of our professional customers are awaiting the availability of Mac with the conversion of Quark Express before upgrading. We shipped a total of 216,000 iPods in the quarter. A little over half of which were Windows units. The addition of Best Buy to the U.S. channel mix was very significant, especially to sales of the Windows version. Our Apple retail stores had a great quarter. We opened 11 stores from October through December, bringing the quarter in total to 51 open stores. Apple [ gap in audio ] Retail segment loss improved sequentially from 3 million in the December quarter to 1 million in the December quarter. The manufacturing profit associated with the retail segment was 23 million, and this has been excluded from the segment results. Our traffic records indicate that approximately 3.5 million people visited our retail stores during the December quarter for an average of almost 6,000 visitors per store per week. And our most recent research indicates that 50% of customers buying systems in our stores don't currently own a Macintosh. That's up from the 40% rate that we experienced last quarter. Our Comp USA program continues to generate very positive results. We currently have Apple-badged employees working in 174 Comp USA stores. In the December quarter, sales of Apple products through 174 Comp USA stores were up 42% year over year and beyond the box sales were up 43%. Our CPU unit sales through the U.S. education channel were about even with the year-ago quarter. Portables continue to be an increasingly important part of our education sales mix, accounting for over a third of units sold, much higher than the total education segment average. We've also been very pleased by the response to our 10 for teachers program, which to date has put over 300,000 copies of Mac OS 10-in the hands of educators. As expected, Apple's gross margin was up 120 basis points from the September quarter to 27.6%, primarily due to lower component costs, a stronger mix of direct sales, and a greater mix of PowerBooks. Reported operating expenses were $443 million, including a $23 million pretax restructuring charge. The three largest elements of this restructuring charge were, one, 8.5 million related to the closure of our Singapore manufacturing operation. Two, 6.5 million related to the downsizing and closure of some of our field sales offices, and finally, 6 million related to the ongoing restructuring of our PowerSchool business. Excluding the restructuring charge, operating expenses were 420 million, consistent with our guidance. Other income and expense was 29 million, about 4 million higher than expected. With interest rates declining significantly and the yield curve flattening, it has become advantageous for us to close out and realize gains as some of our longer term cash investments. Additionally, we experienced lower than expected FX hedging costs during the quarter. The effective tax rate was 28%, consistent with our guidance. The reported results also include a nonrecurring after-tax charge of 2 million related to the transition to FAS 143, which Apple adopted in our first fiscal quarter of '03. The charge represents the catch-up adjustment related to amortization of lease retirement obligations. As indicated earlier, the restructuring charge and the transition adjustment had a net after tax impact of 19 million on the reported results, or 5 cents per share. In terms of the balance sheet, cash was up 125 million sequentially to 4.462 billion. We are very pleased with our working capital management, particularly receivables and inventories. Consistent with a greater mix of direct sales and better linearity during the quarter, our day sales outstanding in terms of receivables improved to 31 days, while inventory remained lean at four days. The cash conversion cycle was minus 35 days. Looking ahead to the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of information that Nancy referred to in the Safe Harbor Statement at the beginning of the call. We expect revenues and gross margins to be relatively flat with the December quarter. We expect operating expenses to decrease by 5 million sequentially. We expect other income and expense to decline significantly to about 20 million due to lower interest rates, and we expect a tax rate to continue to be about 28%. As a result, we expect a slight profit before -- for the quarter. Last week at Mac world San Francisco we announced some great new hardware products and software application. A customer reaction so far has been very positive. We don't think it is in the best interests of our shareholders or customers to focus on short-term profit maximization at the expense of future growth. Accordingly, we're going to continue to keep investing through this downturn and continue to move our products further ahead of our competitors so that when the economy rebounds, we will be positioned for significant growth. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question and answer session will be conducted electronically. If you'd like to signal to ask a question, please press the digits star-1 on your touch-tone telephone. Once again, that is star-1 for a question. And we'll pause for just a moment so everyone has a chance for the signal. Our first question comes from Don Young with UBS Warburg. 

 DON YOUNG, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Thank you and good evening. Fred, I'm wondering about the PowerBook performance was a lot stronger than I had expected in the quarter, was some of the sequential growth these new products announced at Mac world being loaded into the channel, or is that really, you know, cleanly ahead of the new product wave that it should come? The other thing I wanted to come back to, your final comments about, you know, short-term profits maximization versus investment, looking at the macro setting in PCs, a lot of us are concerned about another bad demand year and wondering if Apple, which is running expenses higher today than when you were a $8 billion company and now you're a $6 billion company. If it isn't time to at least balance the shorter term expense structure in light of the demand setting that appears to be emerging today. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. Thanks, Don. First one, on the PowerBooks, there were none of the new PowerBooks that were announced by Steve Jobs is his Keynote I believe on January the 7th, wasn't it? That were shipped in prior to the end of the quarter, there were none. So basically, people really liked the strong value proposition of the prior PowerBooks that were announced during the quarter. As you may recall, not only, you know, were they improved, but we substantially dropped the pricing, as I recall, on those PowerBooks. And so I think there was a good response by our customers, which really drove the improved sell-through, you know, and the revenue being over 100,000 units. So does that answer everything you wanted to know about the PowerBooks? 

 DON YOUNG: Yes. Thank you. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. In terms of my comments at the end of my preamble there on -- we're not going to mortgage the future for short-term profit maximization. We feel very strongly here at Apple and I think it's driven by us being an innovator. And through this downturn over the last two years, we've substantially ramped up R and D to now we're at a run rate of close to $500 million a year. And we believe that we have the strongest lineup of products we've had in a long time today, as a company. And unlike what some people might be speculating, I will tell you that we have an incredibly strong pipeline of future products coming, and that's a function of not only the talented people that we have here, but we continue to increase R and D. And the position we want to be in is one where we've laid the foundation, as we come out of this economic downturn, to substantially increase our market share. And we realize that to drive shareholder value for this company, we're going to have to grow this business. And that's what we're committed to do, and we're not interested in enhancing, you know, our short-term quarterly profits here at the expense of future growth and market share gains. 

 DON YOUNG: I guess for the issue I had was more in the sales and marketing side, where the company is a lot smaller than it was three or four years ago, and the spending in sales and marketing is the same. And I would have thought there had been some volume impact on the overall expense structure. Now, is that, you know, we look at sales and marketing, you know not scaling at all with revenue, is that large I had because of the investment in stores? 

 FRED ANDERSON: That's a good follow-up there Don. Let me answer it this way. We truly believe that we are gaining market share right now in the consumer market. And we think that's being driven heavily not only with the great consumer-oriented products we have, but that we're now controlling more and more of the point of sale relative to the consumer market by virtue of now having 51 of our own retail stores, and secondly, having 174 of our own people in Comp USA, you know, controlling the point of sale to sell our differentiated products. And, you know, as I said in my preamble, we actually saw Comp USA sales up year over year in those 174 stores where we have our own people, 42% year over year, so I think that's evidence and our own retail stores growing from 102 million sequentially to 148 million, that this strategy of investing and expanding our own direct controlled point of sale and investing there through our retail stores and through Comp USA is beginning to pay off. And one final point I want to make, even though, you know, the environment wasn't good, and I don't think, although we don't have the final reports for the whole PC sector, you know, early indications are that it wasn't a strong holiday quarter overall for the PC sector. But Apple actually had not only delivered a slight sequential increase in revenues and year over year 7% growth, but we reduced channel inventory another 11% in terms of units. And a final point I want to make is that our actual sell-through value was about 75 million higher than the reported revenues. And so this gives us confidence that we're doing the right things in investing in our distribution. 

 DON YOUNG: Thank you. 

 FRED ANDERSON: :Thanks, Don. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question comes from Richard Gardner with Salomon Smith Barney. 

 RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SALOMON, SMITH & BARNEY: Okay. Thanks. Fred, I was hoping you could just talk about why the U.S. was down as much as it was. Was it primarily the channel inventory reduction, or what exactly happened there? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, Rich, actually, the U.S. wasn't down in the way we like to look at it here. And you can make your own judgment on it. But actually, all end, the U.S. year over year was up 21%, including education in revenues. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. I guess I was referring -- I'm sorry. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Let me clarify that, excluding education, it was up 21%. And if you -- if you include education, it was up 16% year over year. And what I'm doing there is in adding in our retail division, which I think is a fare way to it, because it's part of our U.S. geography. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: I guess I was talking more quarter to quarter. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sequentially, I don't have that in front of me. We could look at it. But I've got to believe that it also looked pretty good, if you exclude education, which I think is the right way to look at it. Because educational is seasonally is a strong quarter in September, right? And the weakest is in December. So we can get that for you offline but I've got to believe with retail being up from 102 to 148 million, when you add that in our channels, it was up -- I think the main thing is if you're looking at it sequentially, if you've got education included, which I don't think is valid, what were you saying then? 

 NANCY PAXTON, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS & CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER, INC.: Total was 939 in the fourth quarter. 

 FRED ANDERSON: So we have it here. Our actual, excluding -- 

 NANCY PAXTON: This is all total U.S. 

 FRED ANDERSON: So you're saying even including education? 

 NANCY PAXTON: Right. 

 FRED ANDERSON: So but that's going down, from 939 to 836, because of education. But if you back out education, which we can get you offline, I'm confident there's an increase. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And secondly, Fred, I was just hoping you could spend a little time on the pro products. I know you can't announce new products, but latest price checks still show that product about 35 or 40% more expensive than a comparably equipped Dell system. You've always talked about it as the profit engine of the company. Can you give us any sense of what you're thinking in terms of getting that product back on its feet again this year and helping you out a little bit on the P and L? 

 FRED ANDERSON: I can't go into a lot of details on this, but what I would say, Rich, we acknowledge that probably the biggest challenge we have is to get our Power Mac sales back up, you know, to 200,000 units, at least a quarter. And the company's management is very focused on that, and we have a number of, you know, plans going forward that I can't share with you to enhance our performance in the Power Mac line area. And I would also say that we hope that we get some help with Quark Express to help do our platform sometime this year as well as some rebound in the economy. Because we truly believe there's some pent up demand whereby our creative customers have delayed buying decisions where they normally have an upgrade cycle of 24 to 36 months, we think that's been elongated by the economic downturn, primarily. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Fred, if I could ask just one more. You mentioned in your K that interest income was going to be down pretty substantially year over year. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yes. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Could you give us a sense of what you're expecting there for the full year? Can we just extrapolate from the numbers that you gave us for the first quarter? 

 FRED ANDERSON: What you have there is a delayed impact of the drop in interest rates, meaning that as our portfolio rolls over, right, on some of these shorter-term investments, if you look at the term on the yield curve, anything that we've been having, you know, less than a year, renews at much lower interest rates due to the drop in interest rates. And I'd prefer not to get into forecasting the third and fourth quarter, we've given you guidance of about 20 million for the March quarter. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Thanks, Fred. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes, it comes from Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Good afternoon. Thanks. Just a quick follow-up on the interest income question. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sure. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: That's triangulating off of what happened in the first quarter in terms of some of the gains that were recognized given some of what's happening in the yield curve. Is it fair to assume that that's more of a one-time event and that we shouldn't see that going forward, or could we potentially see that before the end of the year? 

 FRED ANDERSON: I think it's possible, depending on what happens in the yield curve when we have to renew, you know, toward the end of the second quarter and early in the third quarter. What I'm hedging on is, there were a lot of people that think there's not going to be any further reductions in interest rates and that sometime in the next three to six months, you're going to see the yield curve steepen with interest rates beyond one year beginning to move up. And if that should happen, then it could be that Apple might put some of its portfolio out beyond one year. So there are a lot of dynamics here. And I feel like, you know, I just don't want to get into forecasting the second half other than to say it's possible that our interest income, if interest rates don't go up, in terms of the yield curve, could fall below 20 million a quarter in the third and fourth quarter. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: And can you comment on how significant the gains were in the first quarter? 

 FRED ANDERSON: They -- in terms of OINE? 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: Yes. 

 FRED ANDERSON: They accounted for, as I indicated, being 4 million above what our original guidance was, which was 25 million, would fully account for the 4 million over achievement. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: It was up 4 million. And then I believe the K talked about 77 million or so in CAPEX for the stores this year. Could you, perhaps, put some color in terms of planned store openings and just shed some additional light on what our expectations for the year should be? 

 FRED ANDERSON: We have not given any target as to how many stores we might open in fiscal 2003. We'd like to get a few more months under our belt as we refine our plans here before we set a target. You may remember last year, we didn't give any target until the springtime, and I would imagine we'll follow that same pattern this year. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: And then last question, just in terms of talking about some of the dynamics in the marketplace, you talked about your belief that you are -- you know, currently taking share in the marketplace -- 

 FRED ANDERSON: In the consumer market. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: In the consumer marketplace. And I guess this was a consumer-oriented question. In particular, taking share on the consumer oriented marketplace and at the same time we're see being in a lot of the Windows-based competitors pricing pressures even accelerating into the new year and I'm just curious how you're thinking about balancing out the premium and price relative to some of the other vendors, and if there's the expectation for additional price cuts or if you feel comfortable with the premium as it stands today even as it's widening given the market share gains. 

 FRED ANDERSON: We're committed to continuing to provide a great value proposition that takes into account what we offer in our products and how we price them. And so we monitor that very closely. I think that most people believe our new PowerBooks provide a great value in terms of the announcements of last week. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE: Great. Thank you very much. 

 FRED ANDERSON: I'd like to take this opportunity to quickly respond to Rich's question. We've now pulled the data together. That excluding education, if you want to look at our U.S.-region performance in the December quarter versus the September quarter, we actually, Rich, were up sequentially 9%, sequentially in the December quarter versus the September quarter. So go ahead and take the next question. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Our next question comes from Joel Wagonfeld with Banc of America Securities. 

 JOEL WAGONFELD, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Thanks very much. I was wondering if you could comment on your expectations for component costs going forward relative to the benefit there in Q4 and also whether you could give us any update on X serve (ph) examine potential storage products as well as the percentage of your R&D spend that goes towards those types of efforts and how you're thinking about that going forward. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. I'm going to ask Peter to answer that question. Of course, you know from our guidance that we have guided to flat gross margins in the March quarter compared to the December quarter. You want to talk about the component? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER, SENIOR VP FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER INC.: Sure. Within that guidance, we would see the general market basket of components memory board components, optical, hard drives coming down slightly and the market for flat-panel displays being relatively confident to where it is today. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. Any other questions? 

 JOEL WAGONFELD: Just the question about Xserve and the R & D spend towards those types of efforts. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Could you repeat your question on Xserve, please? 

 JOEL WAGONFELD: If you could give us any update on your progress with Xserve in terms of getting traction and the amount of your R & D spend that goes toward that type of a new product. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sure. We sold about 6,000 total servers in the quarter, most of which were Xserve (ph), we're pleased with our initial start with that product. It's gotten good reviews from our customers, and we plan on introducing our range store product early in the new calendar year, and we've not disclosed the amount that we spent for both these products in terms of R&D. But clearly one of the areas that we have invested in terms of innovation. 

 Joel Wagonfeld Okay. Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Joe. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. And just a reminder to everyone, it is star-1 for a question or a comment. And our next question comes from Sharon Foster. Ms. Foster, please go ahead with your question. Next we'll go to Kimberly Alexy with Prudential. 

 KIMBERLY ALEXY, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Great. Thanks. A couple follow-ups on the stores. I know you haven't given any specific goals for this year and are not going to, but just looking back on the 10-K issue, your CAPEX on the stores is slated to be down year on year, and I know you're getting more efficient in opening those stores as well. Maybe you could just talk to us about how to interpret some of those CAPEX numbers as it relates to, you know, some assumption of stores. And maybe more broadly answer and longer term, if you could comment on the what the end game of the retail stores really mean, I know in the past maybe last year's analyst meeting we had talked a little about, you know, sort of how to think about the long-term for the stores, you know, perhaps being not quite like a Gateway model in terms of going through several hundred. So I'm trying to get a sense of where you think the feeling may be without committing to anything specific. And then if you could also refer back maybe to that analyst meeting last year and give us a sense as to how you're updating, if at all or thinking differently if at all about the medium term financial plan that you had laid out. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. Let me take the retail strategic part of the question and then I'll ask Pete to answer the part on CAPEX. Basically, you know, again, we view our retail initiative as our key strategy, along with putting our own people in places like Comp USA to control the point of sale, as I said earlier as our key strategy to reach out to Windows users and convert them, right? And that's backed by our switcher ads. And this is probably our key strategy to grow market share and drive the growth of the company. And so given that strategy and how it ties back to how many stores we might open and the financial aspects, don't forget, as I mentioned in the preamble we may have lost 1 million at the segment level on 148 million on revenues in our retail stores but don't forget, we had 23 million in manufacturing profit. So what I would argue is that nobody knows for sure how much of our retail division business is incremental, but I'm confident that at least half of it is, if not more. And so if we take half of that 23 million, or round it to 11 million downward, then net there would be a $10 million positive contribution from our retail initiative, assuming that only half of the sales are incremental. So I think that, you know, to a lot of those naysayers who said, oh, this is risky and will never pay off financially, I've got to tell you it's already beginning to pay off financially. And so what we're really focused on, as long as we can open new stores that can at least break even at the store level and drive incremental growth by giving us new locations to switch Windows users to Mac users, then we think that that's smart to do. And we haven't -- we're kind of evolving and taking it a phase and step at a time and year at a time as to how many stores we're going to open. And so that's really our strategy is we want to keep them at least break-even or slight profit, but then beyond that, what we want to drive is more switchers to the Mac platform, which will increase our market share. And that's really our overall strategy. Peter, you want to talk about the CAPEX question? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: As we say, for fiscal '02, our capital expenditures in total for the company were 174 million, and of that retail comprised 106(ph) (audibility difficulty) million for the store facility and related equipment. We indicated in the K that our fiscal '03 capital expenditures are likely to be in the range of about 160 (ph) (audibility difficulty) million, and we would expect the retail capital expenditures to be down year over year. 

 KIMBERLY ALEXY: Can you just go into a little bit more detail about how much of that might be increased efficiency versus any kind of read on how many stores you may be considering opening at this point? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Well, we continue to work on the efficiency side, as you may remember, from one of Ron's past presentations. We do have a small store footprint now that has substantially reduced the cost of a store versus the original store size. So that definitely is a factor. 

 KIMBERLY ALEXY: Can you quantify that at all? 

 FRED ANDERSON: You know, I'd prefer not to beyond what Ron may have said at a prior, you know, analyst meeting. I believe he indicated, what was that, Peter, about the size of the store and the cost being down about -- what was it, 30 to 45%? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: I think so, yeah. 

 KIMBERLY ALEXY: Okay. 

 FRED ANDERSON: So I don't really have any update to what he's previously articulated on that. I think it reduces the cost about 30 to 40%, the smaller store. 

 KIMBERLY ALEXY: Okay. And then just lastly, I'm sure that term medium financial model any kind of thoughts about circling back to what you had laid out around July? 

 Well, for the year, you know, I believe that, you know, we have a really good shot to, you know, drive a break-even without the manufacturing profit for the retail segment for the full year you know. Maybe we'll have a slight profit but we want to at least be at break-even for our retail division and continue to switch more people to the Mac and drive growth. 

 KIMBERLY ALEXY: Thanks. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Thanks, Kimberly. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes, our next question comes from Manish Fiyell (ph) with Neuberger Newman. 

 MANISH FIYELL, ANALYST, (PH) NEUBERGER NEWMAN: First if you could comment on your performance in Japan and what steps you're taking to improve that. And then I have a couple more. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, lets me just start that and then I'll have Peter embellish on it. I think the overall business climate in Japan continues to be very weak, as evidenced by, you know, our, you know, decline in Japan and revenues being down year over year by 24%. Peter, you want to reference some of the things we're trying to? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. We believe that our new portable announcements in Japan, it's a very strong portable market, and the 12 and 17-inch form factors should do well over there, along with the iBooks that we have been selling. Additionally, we talked about in the last call that we have hired approximately 70 people that we've put in our 60 highest volume resellers. That happened partway through the first quarter, early through the program. We're pleased with the results, but it's early in that program, and we're hopeful that that will pay positive dividends in addition to the exciting new products that we introduced. 

 MANISH FIYELL: Is the weakness in any particular market, or it's just broad-based weakness in Japan? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, what I would say, first of all, our biggest market presence in Japan is the consumer market. 

 MANISH FIYELL: Right. 

 FRED ANDERSON: And I would say that -- and then a second market I know where we're strong is the creative markets where we have a good -- fairly good presence there. But the strongest, overwhelmingly strongest segment in Japan has been the consumer market and I think that's been pretty hard hit. 

 MANISH FIYELL: In calendar 2003, what are you expecting from the education market in the U.S.? In terms of growth. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. I don't want to get into forecasting the education market. I would tell you that we continue to remain cautious about the education market, particularly given the funding constraints in states like California, you know, the kind of looming budget deficit that is being faced in the state of California and initial indications are that education is going to be cut back, you know, in the state of California and there are other states in the union right now facing budget deficits, and unlike the federal government, you know, you've got to balance the budget if you're a state. 

 MANISH FIYELL: Finally, maybe I'll try this. I may get an answer for this one. Can you give us some statistics for -- if you track how many of the customers from your retail effort are from new switchers or for first time buyers? 

 FRED ANDERSON: As we indicated, our survey this last quarter indicated about 50% of the unit CPU sales through our retail stores were to non-Mac users. 

 MANISH FIYELL: Thank you. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Thanks, Manish. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Andrew Neff from Bear Stearns. 

 ANDREW NEFF, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & CO.: Sure. Three quick things if I could. First in term of the iPod, where does that show up, in the software or the hardware line? Where do you throw that in?. Could you tell us what the revenue was for that? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, it's in the peripherals and other section. You know, basically what we gave you was the number of unit sales which were 216,000. 

 Okay. Second, -- And that slightly over half of those were for Windows. 

 ANDREW NEFF: Okay. Second question is just in terms of your guidance, Fred, typically the -- or just from a seasonal standpoint, typically the March quarter is down. Why -- what makes you confident or gives you the sense you're going to have a sequentially flat quarter? Is it the new products or something else? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, that's really a good question. There are two things. One, as I said, we actually decreased the channel inventory in terms of units by 11% from the end of the September quarter to the end of the December quarter. And in terms of sell-through value, it was 75 million, about, higher than the 1 billion 472 million in revenues we reported. So what I'm trying to tell you, you have to look under the revenues to see what the real customer demand value was. And so you know, basically, if you kept channel inventory flat, that would imply that, you know, we are expecting some slight decrease in demand quarter to quarter. Now, the second part of that is that we really feel good about our new products, that we have for this quarter. 

 ANDREW NEFF: Okay. And I guess that actually covers it. Thanks very much. 

 Fred Anderson; Okay. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy. Can we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: It comes from Kevin Hunt about Thomas Weisel Partners. 

 KEVIN HUNT, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Hi. Yes. I wonder if you could quantify the -- this quarter's component breakdown like you did for the going forward in terms of what might have been components, you know, flat panel versus other components. I missed what you said of the other contributions for this quarter. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. In terms of the gross margins, let me take that piece and I'll ask Peter to cover the other. As I had said on the preamble, our gross margins were up 120 basis points for the September quarter to 27.6%. Due to three factors. One is lower component costs. Two is a stronger mix of direct sales, which was driven heavily by our increased sales of both our online store as well as our Apple retail division. And finally, a greater mix of PowerBooks, which have my higher gross margins, and those were the three factors. 

 KEVIN HUNT: Can you break down the component part, too? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yeah, in our first quarter the biggest drop that we saw in components came from memory. Displays fell a bit towards the end of the quarter. And the other market, basket, was down as well, big the biggest segments came from memory. 

 KEVIN HUNT: And one other question, if I may, on the retail stores, I wonder if you could comment on the mix or anything you've seen there that's different than the sales of the rest of your regions. It seems like that's much higher ASPs which I'm sure part of that's due to capturing the retail margins. Is there anything else there? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. In addition to beyond the box attached, as you would assume, you might be surprised that we have more sell-ups to the best within a product family. In other words, they'll buy the high-end iBooks or flat-panel iMacs than our normal channels. 

 KEVIN HUNT: Okay. Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Kevin. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes, it comes from Charles Wolf with Needham & Co.. 

 CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO.: Yes. In his Keynote last week, Steve mentioned that, as I recall, that there was over 5 million window users that went to your switch site. Do you guys have any way of tracing the number that might have actually brought a Macintosh? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Not to my knowledge. Anybody here that knows anything different than I do, but I'd say no. 

 Charles Wolf; Okay. Thanks a lot. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Thanks, Charlie. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Can we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes, Michael Hilmeyer with Merrill Lynch. 

 Michael Hilmeyer Yeah, hi, Fred. Just a follow-up on education, you guys put out a statement earlier this week regarding the possible settlement of a Microsoft antitrust issue in California, not the national settlement. Are you able to put any more color around that, or is it just way too early? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, I don't have any comment to make on that at this time. 

 MICHAEL HILMEYER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Okay. Thanks. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Thanks, Michael. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. We'll go to Howard Fisher (ph) with Metropolitan West. 

 HOWARD FISHER, ANALYST, METROPOLITAN WEST: Hi, thanks. I was just wondering, on the $125 million sequential cash addition, is that a number that long term we can sort of annualize, you know, coming out to 500 million a year, I do understand you can't take down working capital forever, especially as you start to grow, but supposedly at that point you'll be generating greater profits to offset that. Is $500 million free excess cash annually out of the ballpark? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Not at current revenue and earning levels. Clearly, what we need to do to do, and you answered it in that, you know, not every quarter can you have a reduction in working capital and continue to sustain that like we did this quarter. You know, we actually had receivable days down to 31 days. And, you know, that was due to really good linearity during the quarter and kind of an optimal level. I can't see getting our receivable days much below 31 days. You answered it. I would say that in terms of cash flows going forward, they should approximate earnings to be maybe be slightly better than that depending upon our capital expenditures, which this quarter were less than our depreciation and amortization. So you know, I think it can be slightly better than earnings but certainly not to the magnitude of what we saw this quarter. No, that's not sustainable. But I certainly would hope -- and I'm not making any forecasts but, you know, all the investments we're making here in both R and D and new products and our distribution, as we come out of this downturn, we'll pay off an increased market share and top-line growth. And once we get that, we should see the operating margin expand significantly. Because, you know, we have an infrastructure in place to support, you know, for example, an $8 billion revenue line even though we're at 6. And so you know, for every billion you can add to the top line, you're going to see, you know, a lot of that come down to the bottom line, which obviously not only drives earnings, but cash flow from operation. 

 HOWARD FISHER: That's great. Thank you very much. 

 Nancy Paxton; Thanks. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Just a reminder to everyone online, it is star-1 for a question or comment. Our next question comes from Richard Chu with SG Cowen. 

 RICHARD CHU, ANALYST, SG COWEN SECURITIES: Thank you. Two quick things. What was the direct mix including the online? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. Our direct mix and kind of like how we define that in terms of direct business would be our education business, our Internet store, and our retail, you know, 51 retail store division, and I believe it was 34% during the quarter. 

 RICHARD CHU: Do you have the number for the December -- September quarter? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, for the September quarter it was 41%, but recognize that included the peak quarter for education. 

 RICHARD CHU: Okay. 

 FRED ANDERSON: And, you know, just to give it to you, sometimes people want to know about what our Apple store percent was, which includes, you know, channel orders coming in through the Apple store, and that was at 46% for the quarter. And so giving you that information. 

 RICHARD CHU: And then secondly, was there any kind of discernable impact on operations from the dock strike? 

 FRED ANDERSON: No. I believe we managed our way through that pretty well, didn't we, Peter? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Yes, we did. We did not see any significant interruption in product availability, but we did have to pay some premium air freight to get product in, which we had built into our guidance. 

 RICHARD CHU: Thank you. Then finally, is there any way that you can discern whether the the last six convergences of Compaq and HP combined in the supply chain has impacted in any way your components cost structures in terms of conditions with the supply chain? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Not to my knowledge. 

 RICHARD CHU: In terms of payables and price structures. 

 FRED ANDERSON: I'm not aware of any significant impact. 

 RICHARD CHU: Okay. That's all I had. Thank you very much. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Today's last question comes from Rob Cihra with Fulcrum. Please go ahead sir. 

 ROB CIHRA, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Hi. Thanks very much. I know you all don't like to talk about new products, but even just strategically or philosophically, can you talk about the fact that the Ipod's been quite popular including the Windows version. What are your thoughts in terms of other non-Mac products as kind of one of the only non-Mac hardware product? Is that the type of thing you think we might see more of going forward, or is that kind of a one-off thing? Thank you. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sorry. No comment. 

 ROB CIHRA: I could have guessed as much. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sorry. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rob. A recording for today's call will be available for replay for 7 days beginning at 5.00 Pacific time today. And the number for the replay is 719-457-0820 and the confirmation code is 717-338. Members of the press have additional questions can contact Lynn Foxx. Lynn's number is 408-974-6209 and financial analysts can contact either Jon Hoover or me with additional questions. Jon is at 408-974-4070 and my number is 408-974-5420. Thanks again for joining us. 

 OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect. We do appreciate your participation. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | i3303 : Networking | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020030116dz1f0018i
  


 HD
 Q4  2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
4,375 words
   PD
16 October 2002
   ET
09:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Please stand by, the conference is about to begin. Good day everyone and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss fourth quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance, Ms. Nancy Paxton. Please go ahead. 

 NANCY PAXTON, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER: Thank you, and good afternoon and thanks to everyone for joining us. Apple issued its fourth quarter earnings press release at approximately 1:30 p.m. Pacific time today and the earnings press release and financials are available on first call as well as on Apple's website. 

   TD
 Speaking today is Apple's CFO, Fred Anderson, and he'll be joined by Senior VP of Finance, Peter Oppenheimer, and VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Whisler-ph for the Q and A session with analysts. 

 Please note that some of the information you'll hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements and that actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to pages 25 through 32 of Apple's latest Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2001. 

 In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet. And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Fred. 

 FRED ANDERSON, EXECUTIVE VP AND CFO, APPLE COMPUTER: Thanks, Nancy. In its fiscal fourth quarter Apple generated revenues of 1.44 billion and earnings before nonrecurring items of 2 cents per share. These results were consistent with our guidance of flat sequential revenues and a slight profit before nonrecurring items. There were several nonrecurring items during the quarter. First, we wrote down several equity investments resulting in a charge of 49 million net of tax. Second, we took a restructuring charge of 4 million net of tax. Third, we took an in process R and D charge related to our Emagic acquisition of 1 million after tax. 

 Finally, we reversed a small portion of a previous charge related to a special executive bonus expense in the prior year resulting in a favorable impact of $2 million. 

 Collectively, these nonrecurring items reduced net income by $52 million. Including the nonrecurring items, Apple reported a net loss of 45 million or 13c per share. Without the nonrecurring items, net income would have been (inaudible) or 2c per share. 

 Channel inventory decreased to five weeks from the 6.5 weeks on hand at the beginning of the quarter. We are extremely pleased that we were able to achieve our goal of returning to our normal range of four to five weeks in spite of the continued weak environment. Apple shipped a total of 734,000 CPU units during the quarter, a decline of 14% from the year-ago quarter. This decline was driven principally by the reduction in employment (inaudible) 70,000 were the classic CRT iMac's, 129,000 were eMac's, and 113,000 were flat panel iMac's. 

 Customer response to the new 17 inch flat panel iMac has been stronger than we anticipated and sales exceeded our expectations for that skew during the quarter. The iBook continued to sell very well in both education and consumer markets. We shipped over 180,000 iBook units in the quarter with the combo drive skews being increasingly popular. 

 Sales of Paramount G4's and PowerBooks were sluggish. We believe many of our professional customers continue to be adversely affected by the weak economy and reaction is (inaudible) including 54,000 of those units. The iPod continues to garner extraordinary reviews almost a year after introduction. 

 In Japan according to market researcher JFK (inaudible) and all iPod models combined accounted for 42 percent of all MP3 players sold in Japan during the month of September. On September 15th, we started selling a iPods in Best buy. As you know, the Christmas quarter is traditionally the biggest quarter for MP3 sales and we're excited about the expanded reach that Best buy can provide. 

 We started shipping Mac OS X version 10.2 or Jaguar on August 24th. In the first weekend alone we sold over 100,000 copies and for the full quarter we sold through over 280,000 copies excluding volume licenses. The reviews and customer feedback for Jaguar have been excellent and have helped make the Mac OS X transition one of the fastest the industry has experienced. By the end of this calendar year we estimate that approximately 20% of our install base or about 5 million users will be using MAC OS X as their primary operating system. 

 Although the initial market reaction to substituting our previously free iTools with the subscription based dot. Mac service was negative, by the end of the quarter our dot. Mac subscriptions exceeded our initial expectations by a large margin. Today over 200,000 customers have subscribed to dot. Mac. Our Apple retail stores turned in an outstanding quarter. We opened nine stores during the quarter, including two high-profile stores in New York and Los Angeles. Bringing the quarter end total to 40 open stores. Apple retail store revenues increased sequentially from $63 million to $102 million with an average of 35 stores open during the quarter, we achieved an average annualized revenue rate of almost $12 million per store. The retail segment loss improved sequentially from 6 million in the June quarter to 3 million in the September quarter driven by store contribution that was positive for the first time. 

 The manufacturing profit associated with the retail segment was $20 million, and that was excluded from the segment results I just mentioned. During the September quarter our traffic records indicate that approximately two and a quarter million people visited our retail stores, and our average conversion rate or transactions per store visitor increased significantly over the course of the year. Our most recent research indicates that 40 percent of customers buying systems in our stores don't currently own a Mac. We expect to open a total of 10 stores this quarter by Thanksgiving, bringing our total open stores to 50. By Thanksgiving we estimate that 31 percent of the U.S. population will live within 15 miles of an Apple retail store. 

 Our Comp USA program continues to generate very positive results. In the fourth quarter sales of Apple products through Comp USA stores with Apple sales consultants were up 80% year over year. And in Japan, we have recently hired more than 60 people currently in training who will be deployed in early November in our 60 highest volume resellers in Japan. Our CPU unit sales through the education channel were up 4% sequentially, but down 12% year over year. Almost 40 percent of the education units sold in the quarter were portables, including 17,000 iBooks for all seventh graders in the state of Maine. Early indications suggest that the program in Maine has been a great success thus far. And we expect to ship 18,000 more iBooks through this program in Apple's third fiscal quarter. 

 As expected, Apple's gross margin was down 100 basis points from the June quarter to 26.4% primarily due to planned price reductions on certain products. So the pricing environment for components was more favorable than we originally anticipated. The impact was offset by more aggressive pricing, bundling and promotions, and a stronger than expected mix of consumer products. Operating expenses excluding nonrecurring items were 396 million. Slightly higher than the 390 million we had expected due to increased spending on demand creation activities during the quarter. Nonrecurring items included pretax charges for restructuring and in process R and D of six and one million respectively. And a nontaxable credit of 2 million related to the executive bonus reversal. Resulting in reported operating expenses including these nonrecurring items of 401 million. Other income and expense before nonrecurring items is 25 million, a little better than expected. Including the pretax investment write-downs of 65 million reported other income and expense was minus 40 million. 

 The effective tax rate was 25 percent for the quarter. In terms of the balance sheet, cash was up about 30 million sequentially to 4.337 billion. We remain pleased with our asset management particularly accounts receivable and inventories. Day sales outstanding improved to 36 days with a very lean delinquency rate and inventories were at four days. The cash conversion cycle was minus 37 days. 

 Looking ahead to the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of information that Nancy referred to in the Safe Harbor statement at the beginning of the call. 

 We expect revenues to be up slightly from the September quarter and expect gross margin to be up about 100 to 150 basis points. We expect operating expenses to increase to about 420 million, primarily due to the greater number of retail stores in operation and higher holiday advertising and promotion expense. 

 We expect other income and expense to be approximately flat with the September quarter excluding investment write-downs, and we expect the tax rate to increase to about 28%. As a result, we expect a slight profit before nonrecurring items. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question and answer session will be conducted electronically. If you'd like to single to ask a question, please press the button star and the digit one on your touch-tone telephone. Once again that is star one for a question. If you're using a speaker phone, make sure your mute button is disengaged so your signal will reach our equipment. Once again, it is star one for questions. And we'll pause for just a moment so everyone has the chance to signal. 

 Our first question comes with from Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Go ahead, Rebecca. 

 OPERATOR: Ms. Runkle, your line is open, please go ahead. 

 We'll take a question from Don Young with UBS Warburg. 

 ANTHONY TORNER-PH, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Yes. This is actually Anthony Torner-ph for Don. First question. I think you said the inventory level was five weeks? 

 FRED ANDERSON: That's correct. 

 ANTHONY TORNER-PH: Okay. Does that then assume your inventory reduction plan is pretty much done? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. Well, we'll back into the normal range. We thought it would take us, you know, two quarters to do it and we actually did it in one quarter, so I'm very pleased that we're able to deliver actually a slight increase in revenues rather than the flat guidance while we had a significant reduction in channel inventory to bring channel inventory back to a normal level of four to five weeks. 

 ANTHONY TORNER-PH: Okay. And on education sales, could you give us some more information on market share in terms of the education market. I know last quarter you gave that information. 

 FRED ANDERSON: We really don't have any share information. The only thing I can tell you is that normally the June and September quarters for us are relatively equal, and we had as I indicated, a slight increase so certainly although we don't yet have share information, we're hopeful that as a minimum we maintain market share. 

 ANTHONY TORNER-PH: Okay. Thanks, very much. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Anthony. Can we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Charles Wolf with Needham and Company. 

 CHARLES WOLF, ANALYST, NEEDHAM AND CO.: Yes, Fred, I have a couple questions. First, it looked to me like the stores just exploded in terms of incremental revenue growth and I was wondering what went on to cause that? And secondly, I know that the iPods being distributed through Best Buy, are there any other retail chains that it might get into before Christmas? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. So let me take the retail stores. We're just extremely pleased, I think our retail division knocked the cover off the ball this quarter and so your question is why. I just think that they've always since day one when they opened the doors had a great service environment and I think they are beginning to create a stronger sales environment and stronger sales culture. There's a lot of emphasis on reaching out beyond our install base, you know, they've reorganized the store to now have a special area for people new to the Mac sort of switchers. I think the switcher campaign that kicked in, in the latter part of the quarter definitely helped. And as evidenced by the 40 percent of the CPU sales through our resale stores that were to non-Mac users, so I think that all those factors contributed to the success. 

 And finally, I think they're doing a great job in also selling beyond the box, they're very strong in iPod sales and Apple Care Connect rates so they're doing really good job. 

 Second question, Charlie, related to the possibility that we might add additional third-party distribution. It's kind of like the answer that we don't talk about future products, we don't talk about future channel partners that we might have. But, clearly, we're very interested in gaining market share in the whole MP3 marketplace and should that become a profit at a future date, we'll do it. 

 CHARLES WOLF: Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Yes. And just as a reminder, it is star one for questions. Next question comes from Richard Gardner from Salomon Smith, Inc. 

 RICHARD GARDNER, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH INC.: Hi, Fred, Peter. It's actually Cynthia. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Hi, Cynthia. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Hi. Just a few questions. Could you (inaudible) on what some of your component outlook is for the December quarter is the first question. I also noticed you did some price cuts on the flat panel iMac last week, have you had any, I guess, increased sales in those particular skews due to that, and I guess it may be a little bit too early, and I then I had a Power Mac question after that. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. You know, we would expect that component costs would continue to trend downward given the weakness in the industry so that's kind of our overall outlook. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Your second question, could you go over that again? 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Yeah. I noticed you did some price cuts on the flat -- the 15 inch flat panel iMac last week. Is it too soon to tell what that might have done to demand so far? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Peter, you want to comment on that? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER, SENIOR VP OF FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER: Cynthia, honestly, it's been a few days and we will need to give it a week or two to really be able to see the impact of it. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. And on PowerMacs you commented that it seems like your pro-users are just due to the weak economy are kind of waiting. Can you tell us possibly the 17 inch iMac (inaudible) some of that PowerMac sales, and also are you constrained on 17 inch or what's the inventory like on that particular product? 

 FRED ANDERSON: We had a very strong mix of 17 (inaudible) of our mix, but I can't really give you any indication of whether there's cannibalization or to what degree. We think that the primary reason that the PowerMac line continues in weakness is tied directly to the economic problems that our creative customers have in their own businesses rather than cannibalization of the PowerMac line (indiscernible). 

 FRED ANDERSON: No. 

 RICHARD GARDNER: Okay. Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Cynthia. Can we have the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question comes from Steven Fortuna with Merrill Lynch. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, Fred, how you doing? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Good. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA: Question. In terms of your revenue you took inventories by I think you said by a week and a half or thereabouts. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yes, a week and-a-half. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA: Yes. (Inaudible) steady state and not going to have to draw them down in the fourth quarter, so you're really extremely pessimistic on December quarter demand if you're only projecting kind of flattish revenue despite the fact you aren't going to have a hit because of inventory reduction; is that correct? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, let me -- two things. One is I would say that we returned to the high end of our normal range (inaudible). If you were to ask me ideally (inaudible) I'm not going to say that we're not planning some slight further reduction in channel inventories. That's the first point. 

 The second point is that we actually setting that aside, did give (inaudible) out in the economy and the PC industry and the potential threat of war, that there's every (inaudible) being optimistic right now. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA: So it's fair to say that, you know, there could be some upside to your being conservative obviously, which is (inaudible). 

 FRED ANDERSON: We're planning for the worst and hopeful that things will be better. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA: Fair enough. Thanks, Fred. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Steve. Could we have the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes Andrew Salens (Ph) with Prudential Securities. 

 ANDREW SALENS-PH, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Hi. (Inaudible). 

 FRED ANDERSON: In terms of what happened for Apple? 

 ANDREW SALENS-PH: Yes. 

 FRED ANDERSON: As it relates primarily to the education market, is that what you want me to address? 

 ANDREW SALENS-PH: Primarily; yes. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. So as I commented in my preamble, we were up sequentially in education. And even up by 4 percent sequentially, even though we were down 12% year over year, so normally the September and the June quarters are relatively equal, so to that extent, (inaudible) in the quarter. So that, we're pleased with. You know, maybe we'll even have increased share little bit. 

 We're also very pleased with the success of the iBook program and shipping 17,000 iBooks for the seventh graders in the State of Maine, it's going extremely well that, that whole (inaudible). We're also very happy with the market acceptance in education of the iBook overall, it was another strong quarter with 180,000 iBooks being shipped and revenued in the quarter and, you know, many of those were in to education. 

 ANDREW SALENS-PH: Okay. On the iPod side, can you give us any more granularity on the Apple versus Windows) 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. As I mentioned, you know, a great resolve given that we're not talking about the holiday quarter here. We shipped a total of 140,000 iPods in the quarter including 54,000 windows units and remember, we didn't really start shipping the windows unit until, as I recall, Peter, September? 

 ANDREW SALENS-PH: And last question. If you can give a little more granularity on -- 

 FRED ANDERSON: The last thing I would say is we didn't really start the Best Buy initiative until September 15th either so we didn't have a lot of impact relative to that result with Best Buy. So as we look to the holiday quarter we're very optimistic about the growth opportunities for the iPod. 

 ANDREW SALENS-PH: Okay. And last question, real quick. On the component side, any areas of particular strength in terms of where you saw price decreases? In other words, where did you see the biggest impacts on margin lines in terms of benefits on the component side? 

 FRED ANDERSON: You want to take that, Peter? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. It came across the board but clearly memory was a very big driver and we also saw some relief on the flat panels as well. 

 ANDREW SALENS-PH: Great. Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Andrew. Could we have the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Yes. And just as another reminder it is star one to get in cue for a question. Next, we'll go Jonathan Gorging-ph with Reagan McKinsey. 

 JONATHAN GORGING-PH, ANALYST, REAGAN MCKINSEY: Yeah, hi. Most of the questions have been answered. But if you could give us any insights or update on Quirks plans to move their software over to the OS 10 platform? 

 FRED ANDERSON: They haven't given a public date as far as I know, but we certainly still are optimistic that it will be in the future here, and we know that our customers in Apple are awaiting them bringing it to MacOS X. 

 JONATHAN GORGING-PH: Thanks. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sorry, I don't have a date for you. 

 JONATHAN GORGING-PH: Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Jonathan. Could we have the next question, please. 

 Josh, is there another question? 

 OPERATOR: Yes, there is. Our next question comes from Mark Specter-ph with Town View Tech Group. 

 MARK SPECTER-PH, ANALYST, TOWN VIEW TECH GROUP: Hi, Fred. I wonder, can you give us a little sense of how much your gross margins were helped out by the shipment of Jaguar? You usually see a little bit up-take on an operating system (inaudible) like that, especially a successful one. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. I would say that clearly there as we look to the next quarter, you want to compare this quarter with next quarter, we benefited. Obviously I can't give you an exact figure on that in terms of the benefit, but there was some benefit to the gross margin line from that just as there was some negatives due to promotions and price cuts and so forth, but as we look to the next quarter I think the more important thing is we expect gross margins to go up 100 to 150 basis points in spite of not expecting as high a Mac OS X software revenue quarter in the December quarter, and Peter, why don't you kind of articulate the reasons why we expect it to go up next quarter. 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER: Sure. Again, the market aspect of components is down quarter over quarter, our mix of consumer and enterprise sales will be greater than Q4 with lower education sales, and we expect of course growth in retail sales which certainly is creative to our gross margins. 

 MARK SPECTER-PH: Thanks. That helps. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Mark. Do we have any addition questions? 

 OPERATOR: I'd just like to remind everyone one more time that it is star one for question. 

 We have no more questions at this time so I'll turn the conference back over to our panel for any additional or closing remarks. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks very much. Recording of today's call will be available for replay for seven days beginning at 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today, and the number for the replay is 719-457-0820 and the confirmation code is 738248. 

 Members of the press with additional questions can contact Lynn Fox at 408-974-6209, and financial analysts can contact either Joan Hoover or me with additional questions, Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420. 

 Thanks again for joining us. 

 OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | c3141 : Sales Promotions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021024dyag003a3
  


 HD
 Q3  2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
8,478 words
   PD
16 July 2002
   ET
09:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Please stand by. The conference is about to begin. 

 Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple computer conference call to discuss third quarter financial results. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance, Miss Nancy Paxton. Please go ahead. 

   TD
 NANCY PAXTON, APPLE COMPUTER: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Apple issued its third quarter earnings press release at approximately 1:30 p.m. Pacific time this afternoon. The earnings press release and financials are available on Apple's website at www.Apple.com. And speaking today is Apple CFO Fred Anderson, and he'll be joined by Senior VP of Finance, Peter Oppenheimer, and VP and Corporate Treasurer Gary Whisler for the Q and A session with analysts. 

 Please note that some of the information you'll hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements and that actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecasts. For more information, please refer to Pages 25 through 32 of Apple's latest Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2001. 

 In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analysts call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the internet. With that. I'd like to turn the call over to Fred Anderson 

 FRED ANDERSON, CFO, APPLE COMPUTER: Thank you, Nancy. As we indicated on June 18th, Apple's third quarter proved to be very challenging. We did not experience the seasonal uplift in demand that we typically experience in the latter part of May and in June, resulting in quarterly revenues of $1.429 billion, about 11% below our original guidance. We achieved diluted earnings per share of 9 cents, compared to our original guidance of 11 cents, or slightly better. 

 These results fell in the middle of our revised revenue and EPS guidance range provided on June 18th. 

 For the third quarter, Apple shipped 808,000 CPU units, which represented a sequential decline of about 1%. Industry data indicates market weakness across all major segments in the June quarter, and a weak quarter relative to the March quarter. On a regional basis, IDC has forecasted a sequential decline in total personal computer unit shipments of 20% in Japan, 16% decline in Europe, and a 2% decline in the U.S. from the March to June quarters. 

 IDC has also projected a sequential slide of 15% in worldwide PC sales to consumers, and a 6% sequential decline in the small office market. We expect IDC to publish its preliminary results for the June quarter within the next week. 

 Finally, NPD Tech World has indicated that year over year retail sales of personal computers in the U.S. declined in April and May by 17%, and 7%, respectively. Our results fell short of our original plan by $171 million in revenue and about 100,000 CPU units. I'd like to explain in detail this shortfall on both a geographic and a product basis. 

 On a geographic basis, about half of the shortfall in units and revenue was in Europe, with Japan and the Americas accounting for the remainder. The most significant areas of sequential weakness were Europe and Japan where unit shipments were down 24% and 25%, respectively. Industry research data indicates that education business in general continues to be soft, due to declining tax revenues in most state and local jurisdictions. 

 Apple's total unit shipments to the U.S. education market were below our original forecast by 7% and down 17% from the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year decline is comparable to the 18% decline that IDC is projecting for the U.S. education market in total. 

 Based on IDC's forecast, we believe our share of the U.S. education market in the June quarter was about 20%, flat with the year-ago quarter. 

 On a product basis, 80% of the unit and revenue shortfall was attributable to the flat panel iMac and our pro products, including the PowerBook, Power Mac, and related displays. We were surprised and disappointed by the shortfall in these areas. 

 First, as you'll recall, we shipped 220,000 units of the flat panel iMac in the March quarter, and entered the June quarter with a very healthy backlog. Despite strong sell-through of the flat-panel iMac in April, demand slowed markedly in late May and in June. This trend ran counter to our expectations of healthy graduation and Father's Day demand for this product. We were concerned about letting too much of this product accumulate in the channel, and, as such, reduced planned sell-in in the latter parts of the quarter. This allowed us to exit the quarter with about 19% fewer flat-panel iMac units in the channel than we had at the beginning of the quarter. 

 Sales of Power Mac G4's and PowerBooks were weaker than expected for several reasons. First, we did not expect a further deterioration in the economy, particularly in Europe, which accounts for a significant portion of Apple's pro customer business. Second, we did not experience an uplift in pro sales following the introduction of Photoshop 7 for Mac OS X. 

 Finally, we did not fully anticipate the number of customers who we believe are deferring upgrades until Jaguar and Quark Express for Mac OS X are available. Now, I'd like to update you on channel inventory. 

 Excluding the eMac which shipped into the channel in June, channel inventories were down sequentially by 20,000 units. Total channel inventories, including the eMac, increased by approximately 8,000 units. Although ending channel units were relatively flat, weeks of inventory, including all in-transit and channel demo units rose to about 6-and-a-half weeks. 

 Our internal plan calls for us to reduce channel inventory units this quarter and next, with a goal of returning to the normal 4 to 5-week level by the end of the December quarter. 

 Though the general consumer segment continues to be a tough one, we continue to feel good about our retail stores. We opened two stores during the. quarter, bringing the current total up to 31, and we're very enthusiastic about opening our first New York City store in Soho on Thursday of this week. Unit shipments through the retail stores were down sequentially from 24,000 units to 20,000 units, while revenues fell to 63 million, reflecting what we believe to have been a pervasively weak quarter for consumer spending. 

 The retail segment loss increased slightly sequentially to 6 million from 4 million, reflecting the lower sales volume. We continue to work toward an internal goal of achieving break-even results in our retail segment in the December quarter. 

 In terms of gross margins, we originally anticipated a sequential decline of about 100 basis points. However, based on the decline in cost of certain components, especially DRAM, as well as earlier than expected achievement of cost reduction initiative benefits, gross margins were actually flat with the March quarter, at 27.4%. We didn't achieve the slight sequential improvement in gross margin that we expected when we updated our guidance on June 18th because we shipped fewer of the new Xserve rack mount servers than we had projected at that time, and because we booked more price protection than we had anticipated. 

 Operating expenses were 378 million, 5 million below the previous quarter. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, approximately 9 million of development costs related to the Jaguar release of Mac OS X were capitalized during the quarter and will be amortized over three years. 

 Other income and expense was down by about $1 million from the March quarter, primarily due to lower average yield on Apple's cash portfolio. Based on the lower than expected earnings in the third quarter and our outlook for the fourth quarter, we now believe that Apple's effective tax rate for fiscal year 2002 will be 25%, rather than the 28% we had previously anticipated. 

 Accounting rules require us to book a tax provision for the third quarter that will serve to true up the year-to-date tax provision to the 25% level. Because we booked tax provisions of 28% for each of the first two quarters, a tax rate of 18% was required in the third quarter to achieve the appropriate year-to-date provision. The change in the tax rate for the June quarter from 28% to 18% translated into a one cent benefit to earnings per share. 

 We exited the quarter with another very strong balance sheet. Despite making a $100 payment to an Asian supplier early in the quarter, 83 million of which was outstanding at the end of the quarter, we ended with $4.3 billion in cash. Operational efficiency remained excellent. And our cash conversion cycle was a minus 36 days. 

 Looking ahead to the fourth fiscal quarter, we expect revenue to be relatively flat with the June quarter, particularly given a somewhat higher starting point from a channel inventory perspective and given what we believe will continue to be a tough economic environment. 

 We also expect gross margins to be down about 100 basis points compared to the June quarter, due to more aggressive pricing on certain products, particularly in Europe, where the Euro has strengthened substantially. 

 We expect operating expenses to increase to about 390 million for several reasons. First, we won't be capitalizing as much software development expense as in the third quarter. Second, several recent acquisitions, including Emagic which we announced earlier this month will lead to higher R and D. And lastly, we have a greater number of retail stores - we will have a greater number of retail stores in operation. 

 We expect other income and expense to be down about 3 million, due to lower interest income on our investments, and we expect the tax rate to be 25%. As a result, we expect to report a slight profit before nonrecurring items. 

 We will be recording a nonrecurring charge for restructuring in the fourth quarter. We recently implemented a reduction of about 7% of the workforce in our manufacturing plant in Sacramento. We may also do some limited additional restructuring during the fourth quarter as we continue to fine-tune the organization. 

 Additionally, we hold investments in the stock of both Earthlink and Akami, the market value of which was about $41 million below book value as of the end of June. GAAP requires an impairment charge to be recognized when it is believed that an investment has experienced a decline in value below book value that is other than temporary. We will continue to carefully evaluate these two investments and will write them down, should we determine that the decline below book value is other than temporary. 

 Despite a challenging third quarter and continued economic uncertainty in the near term, we continue to feel very positive about the long-term opportunities for Apple. We believe our expanding retail initiative will continue to attract switchers to the Macintosh platform. We're encouraged by the reactions of customers from a variety of markets to Mac OS X and we continue to have what we believe are the industry's best products in our pipeline. You'll see some of what I'm talking about tomorrow, as we kick off Macworld New York. 

 With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.00:14:45 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question and answer session will be conducted electronically. If you'd like to signal to ask a question, please press star 1 on your touch-tone telephone. Once again, that's the star key followed by the digit 1. And we'll take our first question from Rebecca Runkle with Morgan Stanley. 

 ANALYST: Good afternoon. That was that was quick. How are you doing. 

 FRED ANDERSON: I'm doing well. Thank you. 

 ANALYST: Good. Thank you so much for everything. Just a quick question. First, in terms of foreign currency, could you walk us just more specifically through what the foreign currency impacts were in total through the P and L? 

 FRED ANDERSON: You mean for the third quarter? 

 ANALYST: For the third quarter, yep. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. Well, let me first say we normally hedge out six months of future cash flows in terms of our foreign currency business, okay? 

 ANALYST: Uh-huh. 

 FRED ANDERSON: And so what we would have done, based on that policy, is locked in, through a combination of forward contracts and options, the - basically, the next six months of, you know, expected foreign currency cash flows back several months ago. 

 So what I'm saying is that the June quarter was locked in several months ago when the dollar was stronger. Okay? 

 ANALYST: Uh-huh. 

 FRED ANDERSON: And now we've had a significant run-up in the - weakening in the dollar and strengthening of the Euro and yen, and particularly the Euro. And so I can't tell you exactly what the impact was in the quarter, but given that the pricing of products, you know, reflected weaker foreign currencies than the rates that we had hedged at for the June quarter, there was some favorable benefit in the June quarter. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rebecca. Could we have the next question please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Kimberly Alexy with Prudential Securities. 

 ANALYST: Yeah, thanks. Fred, a couple questions. The first is that with your revenue guidance, obviously part of what you're suggesting is that with the inventory work-down, you know, you're a little bit more cautious on the September quarter, but can you give us any signs in terms of confidence levels or early indications on back-to-school and how you're feeling about that in the context of the guidance? 

 And then maybe also focusing on the - the margin commentary, maybe touch on what your outlook is for component costs into the third quarter, and also, if you could just give us an update on how you're thinking about promotional activity. As a general rule of thumb, it seems like you've been stepping that up, particularly at the store level recently, and I'm just trying to get a sense of sort of any changes there on the horizon. 

 And then lastly, any kind of data you can give us on the Wintel switchers campaign and whether or not you think that's off to a good start. Thank you. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. Let me take the Wintel switcher campaign first. 

 I would say that anecdotally, we believe it's off to a good start. We don't have hard data yet, but what we do know is that many of our channel partners, as well as our Apple retail stores, are reporting that we have a lot of Windows users coming into the store and saying, "Hey, I'm a switcher, I'm a Windows user and I'm here to take a look at the Mac." But, you know, Ron will be giving an update at the analysts' meeting on our retail initiative tomorrow, so I'll leave that for further elaboration to him at that time. 

 In terms of the outlook for the September quarter, what I want to reinforce is that, you know, in the June quarter we expected basically a flat sequential industry performance, and IDC and whether you look at NPD Tech World, whatever, is saying, "Hey, you know, there's been a decline in the June quarter versus the March quarter," and we didn't expect that. And so, you know, basically, we didn't hit our original targets in the June quarter because we didn't get the uplift in late May and June that we had expected. And so I think given the current weakness, and particularly in the consumer PC market, I think it's prudent for us to be very cautious relative to our guidance for the September quarter, and not to anticipate a normal amplitude of uplift for back-to-school in the September quarter. 

 That doesn't mean there won't be some uplift, you know, in terms of the seasonal pattern, but, you know, we're not counting on the normal amplitude of the seasonal uplift. 

 As it relates to education, we held share, we believe, you know, based on IDC's saying that they were projecting the education market to be down year over year in units shipments by 18%, and we were down 17%. So we think we held our share at about 20%. 

 As you know, the September quarter typically is comparable to the June quarter in unit shipments into education, with K-12 not being quite as strong in the September quarter as the June quarter, but higher Ed being stronger. And so I would tell you that we're anticipating, you know, a fairly comparable September quarter for education to the June quarter, with the exception of the overlay of the main order, which we currently expect to - plan to begin shipping in the September quarter. 

 So hopefully I've answered the kind of outlook for the September quarter. 

 I think you asked - 

 ANALYST: Just the margins and pricing. Any kind of - I mean, you know, if you could talk about component pricing and strategy. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sure. Exactly. Relative to margins, I would say again, we were cautious on gross margins, guiding down a hundred basis points, approximately. And the reason for that is because we're going to have have to make some pricing adjustments in Europe and certain other locations as a result of the strengthening of the Euro, and yet we have our hedge portfolio already in place. If you follow me. Because we hedge out six months before the run-up in the Euro. And so that's going to cause a little bit of a hit relative to the June quarter, we'll have a little bit of a hit in the September quarter. 

 As to component costs - and we're expecting a little more aggressive pricing on possible or planned introduction of new products during the quarter. 

 And in terms of component costs, I would say we're expecting a relatively stable environment for component costs relative to where they are right now. 

 ANALYST: Great. Thank you. 

 FRED ANDERSON: You're welcome. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Kimberly. Could we have the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question comes from Andrew Neff with Bear Stearns. 

 ANALYST: Thanks, Fred. Just two things, if I could. One, just on the retail strategy, you mentioned you're going to open two stores -you've opened two stores already. What's the plan, as far as you can talk, for that? How far out can you go? Any plans for stores outside the U.S.? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Okay. We're planning to - in the current calendar year, we'll close with 50 stores. We currently have 31 and we'll have - open our 32nd store in Soho here in New York City on Thursday. We're really excited about that. And we don't have any current plans to open stores outside the United States. 

 ANALYST: Where does that number go to, eventually? Does 50 go to - is 50 your - 

 FRED ANDERSON: You know, here's what I would say is that just like, you know, we said last calendar year, our Phase I plan is 25 stores, and we actually did 27. Then we said we're going to take a breather, because we want to do this in a very controlled fashion, and evaluate what the results were of those first phase of stores. We've done that. Ron Johnson is going to update you tomorrow at the analysts' meeting. He's making a presentation on what we learned, and the plans for this year. And then again, we're doing this in a very controlled fashion and so I'm sure we'll then evaluate, after phase II - meaning this calendar year - what we want to do for phase III, and we haven't made that determination yet. 

 ANALYST: Are you seeing any reaction from the existing resellers in those markets that's - and how are you addressing that? 

 FRED ANDERSON: You know, Ron will cover that tomorrow, but - and I don't want to steal his thunder but I'll tell you the following: that we've done a lot of analysis based on results of the first six months ended June of this calendar year, and what I would tell you is that the results in the markets where we have our stores are very - for the channel partners, are very - overall, in total, are very comparable to what they are where we - in markets where we don't have our stores. And so I think that's good news. 

 Ergo, the conclusion would be that our new retail effort is not, you know, hurting the performance of our channel partners. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Thanks very much. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks Andy. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Walter Winnitski with First Albany. 

 ANALYST: Yes. Thanks. I have a couple of questions. Fred, is it possible to quantify the channel impact - channel reduction impact in Q4 in unit or revenue terms? 

 Second, I think I heard you say that the goal was to take inventory down to 4 to 5 weeks by the December quarter? 

 FRED ANDERSON: That is correct. 

 ANALYST: And would that imply some kind of an adverse impact in the December quarter as well on - 

 FRED ANDERSON: No. 

 ANALYST: - booked revenues? 

 FRED ANDERSON: No. Let me be real clear. Let me back up to - again, because I hope you picked up on it. When we said, you know, we ended with relatively flat overall, including the eMac channel inventory at the end of June versus March, but it was 6-and-a-half weeks of channel inventory based on, you know, our sell-through versus 4 and a half weeks in the prior quarter, because obviously that means we had higher sell-through. We try to take - if you look at it trailing -right? - the average of the last five weeks of the quarter, as your denominator, and so that would say that the sell-through in the last 5 weeks of the June quarter was lower than the last 5 weeks of the March quarter. 

 But the point I really want to make is, that includes demonstration units at all of our channel partners, and what do we have, maybe 5,000 points of distribution globally? And for all of our products? So - and it includes all the in-transits, you know. Not only en route from transportation, but across docks at CompUSA and so forth. So, you know, that doesn't mean we have anywhere near 6-and-a-half weeks of new for-sale product at our points of distribution, in terms of storefronts. So is that clear? 

 ANALYST: Yes. Could you quantify that impact of this quarter, what it would be, in units? What you're planning on doing, maybe, or revenues? 

 FRED ANDERSON: So basically, we're - we're looking at a gradual progression down toward that, again, 4 to 5 range, and so if we have a 1-and-a-half week, you know, reduction in channel inventory planned over the next two quarters, I certainly would hope that we could achieve at least half of that reduction in the September quarter, and then the last remaining half of that reduction, so, you know, call it three-quarters of a week to get you down to, you know, five and three-quarters weeks, in the September quarter, and get you down to at least 5 weeks in the December quarter. 

 Now, I'm not ruling out that we might do better and get to that level in the September quarter, but I just want to, you know, indicate that our current planning would say we'll do it gradually over the next two quarters, but get halfway there this quarter. 

 ANALYST: Fred, have you done any thinking about the impact on sales and the fact that in light of some good products on the iMac side, the demand just isn't there, that you could be looking at a situation similar to the Wintel world, where people are just stretching out and PC life cycles have grown and it doesn't matter how stylish or good of product you have, they're not going to be in the market for a while? 

 FRED ANDERSON: You know, I have to back up and say, I had incredible confidence, going into the June quarter, because let's look at, again, where we were. 

 We had a really strong backlog of flat-panel iMacs, the neighborhood of about 70,000 units, and slightly over a hundred million dollars in value, going into the June quarter, when we started it. 

 We had a product that had great market acceptance with that flat-panel iMac, and we expected it to have strong legs throughout the quarter. We knew we were introducing a lot of new products. I just very quickly tick them off. The new eMac for education. And then we brought it in June, toward the end of the quarter, to the consumer market. We had refreshes on the PowerBook, the Power Mac, and, you know, we also introduced a new what we think is awesome, in terms of value and price performance, rack-mount server in terms of the Xserve. 

 So, you know, we - to your point - felt like, gee, we just got awesome products going into the June quarter and we didn't make our original guidance. And we're disappointed. But I think that it was an industry situation, rather than anything unique to Apple. And what I mean by that is, the particular weakness on the consumer market, which, you know, IDC is projecting to be down 15% sequentially. 

 And we're disappointed by the performance of our pro products, particularly the Power Mac, and, you know, we just see continuing weakness in the - clearly in the pro - or creative markets where, you know, Apple has a stronghold. 

 But I will tell you that in - I know Tim is going over this data tomorrow, so I'm not going to steal his thunder, but, you know, buying intention, as you'll see tomorrow, remains very strong based on independent data we have for the Macintosh, in terms of our creative markets. So we don't think we're losing those customers. It's just they're deferring because their business isn't good, and, you know, they're seeing - if you're an advertising firm - their ad revenues dropping. So I have to, you know, agree that it's a very tough market right now. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Walter. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Don Young with UBS Warburg. 

 ANALYST: Yeah. Just a clarification, to start with, if I could, Fred. 

 You had projected much lower channel inventories on your pre-release, which I think was around June 18th and I'm wondering why the big difference, with just two weeks to go in the quarter, was the estimate then on what was on hand off or was the sales in late June a disaster. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Don, if I could just clarify on that point. What I did say on June 18th was I expected channel inventory to remain relatively flat in terms of units from the end of the March quarter to the end of the June quarter, and I had at that time three weeks of sell-through information that I did not have, and I'm sorry, I ended up being off - I said relatively flat, and we ended up being up 8,000 units, which I consider relatively flat. 

 ANALYST: Well, I thought you had said five-and-a-half weeks because the. 

 FRED ANDERSON: No, sir. I did not. 

 ANALYST: Okay. 

 FRED ANDERSON: In fact, the problem is, because we compute it, you know, like on a trailing five weeks, the deviser, I wouldn't have had three of those last five weeks that I stayed clear of trying to convert it to weeks because I didn't know what the average weekly sell-through would be as the devisor and I wanted to gauge it based upon absolute unit channel inventory. I was very careful and I think if you go back and check the recorded conference call, that it will demonstrate that what I'm saying is accurate. 

 ANALYST: So the - the end of June sales must have been particularly weak. 

 FRED ANDERSON: I didn't comment on channel inventory. I would say that, you know, we didn't miss by far. We were off 8,000. I expected at that time the channel inventory in terms of the number of weeks would be up, but I didn't want to characterize my expectation based on weeks of inventory because I wouldn't have had three of the five weeks of the devisor. 

 ANALYST: Fred, the other thing I wanted to go into a little bit was the whole marketing strategy, and maybe we'll talk about it - 

 FRED ANDERSON: Sure. 

 ANALYST: - at the analysts' meeting tomorrow but it just seems the way Apple launches products way before they ship, generates a ton of demand, has an unhedged component exposure, can't really gauge the demand because you get that front-end surge but then you work through it and then there's no demand behind it. Has management thought about approaching the whole launch of new products a little bit differently than what you did with the most recent iMac? 

 FRED ANDERSON: You know, Don, I really haven't had any discussion with Steve Jobs or the marketing team on that. As far as I know, we don't have any plans to change, you know, our product launch practice. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Thank you. See you tomorrow. 

 FRED ANDERSON: See you. Thanks, Don. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Don. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question comes from Richard Gardner with Salomon Smith Barney. 

 ANALYST: Hey, Fred. Just wanted to ask you - and I know you're probably going to defer until tomorrow, but what do you think the medium to long-term operating model for this company is, now that you're so far off of original expectations for the September quarter in terms of operating margins and profitability? 

 And why would you not reconsider your current plans for store openings for the rest of the year, given that it looks like your operating model really is kind of in limbo right now and you really don't know, you know, what the revenue growth is going to look like, and yet you're adding additional fixed costs to your model. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, let me first address the stores. So if we end with 50 by the end of the calendar year, we will open, including the one this Thursday, an additional 19 stores. I will tell you that those are in process. The overwhelming majority of them. 

 And I think that the locations are awesome, and I am very confident that this retail initiative, which is, as I said, very phased and under control, is going to actually contribute to Apple's long-term growth. I'm very confident of that. 

 Let me make one other point. 

 It's my recollection that we had, on the retail division, sales, 11 million in manufacturing profit during the quarter. And so if you were to assume - and Ron will address this tomorrow - that half of our business is incremental, that would be 5-and-a-half million just, you know, dividing by two the 11 million in manufacturing profit, which would say we're very close, even in the last quarter, the June quarter, to break-even in terms of the overall consolidated impact of our retail initiative on Apple. 

 As to the long-term operating model, I just - you know, given the current environment of the personal computer industry right now, you know, that's something I don't really want to get into, as you anticipated, in terms of giving any guidance on that right now. I think, you know, we have limited visibility. I don't really want to go beyond the guidance that we've given on the September quarter. 

 I will tell you that Apple is still committed to making the investments necessary to gain market share and grow the company. We're very financially strong, with 4.3 billion in cash. We didn't have the kind of quarter that we expected or hoped for in the June quarter, but we're still profitable. And I would just remind you that as far as I know, there are only two companies in the PC sector that are profitable: Dell and Apple. And so I think that we're not mortgaging the future. We're continuing to invest in the key growth initiatives for the company. And to do that and lay the foundation when we - you come out of this industry downturn, and at the same time remain profitable, albeit, you know, slight profitability that we're guiding to for the September quarter, I think, you know, is acceptable to management, in terms of striking the right balance. 

 Obviously, we'd like to be doing better, and we're going to strive to do better, but, you know, we're giving guidance that we feel in this environment is appropriate. 

 But we don't have any current plans to alter the operating model. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Rich. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Howard [Gleisher] with Metropolitan West. 

 ANALYST: Hi. Thanks very much. Two quick questions, both related to SG and A. 

 I do notice - and maybe it's just my perception, of, you know, the very strong push in the switchers' campaign, but I don't see the growth in SG and A year to year. I'm wondering what - where you're able to cut back. Is there just cost savings, or how you're able to pay for that without showing increasing SG and A or maybe my perception is different than reality. 

 FRED ANDERSON: If I could answer that one. 

 ANALYST: Sure. 

 FRED ANDERSON: We have really, really tight expense controls in the company. And what we've been doing, you know, is cutting back on our infrastructure costs, both, you know, people and non-people expenses, wherever possible, and that's been how we've been able to basically offset so far this year the increased investments in areas like our new retail initiative, right? 

 Increased R and D. And, you know, increased advertising, as you've seen, certainly in this last quarter with the switcher campaign. 

 But I also think we're kind of focusing it. Steve, I think, has a great philosophy, in that he likes to put all the wood behind one arrow, if you will, and so, you know, he's got a lot of those resources behind the switcher campaign right now, which we think is really critical that we - you know, when we - we're trying to go for this other 95%, not only with our retail stores but also for all of our channel partners, and, you know, anecdotally, you know, we're getting good feedback on this, that it is resonating, although we don't have hard data yet, with Windows users. 

 So I think it's more that rather than increasing dramatically, our advertising, that what we're doing is really focusing it on this switcher campaign right now. 

 ANALYST: And then this might be a little controversial, but if - 

 FRED ANDERSON: By the way, the switcher campaign is only running in the U.S., too, so let me be clear on that. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Then - but, you know, if you have the confidence that you can get market share up and you can do that by having switchers, and you have an environment today where your competition - all of your competition in the PC space, other than Dell - and I know that's a big other, but other than Dell - you know, is in disarray, why don't you spend even more to get market share when there's a lot of uncertainty, HP and Compaq, who knows what's happening with Gateway, you have an unique opportunity and you have a very new product line that you pointed out. If you - if you wait too much longer, then the uniqueness and the novelty of the product may not come through as well in the campaigns. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. We're trying to strike the right balance. Clearly, if we weren't concerned about retail profit - I mean, excuse me, short-term profitability, you could pursue a, you know, full speed ahead. But, you know, we're just really trying to balance the long-term with the short-term, remaining profitable as a company in the short term, and so it's a tough balancing act right now. 

 But, you know, there is some merit to the point you're raising. 

 ANALYST: Or is it that you're not yet sure that this switcher campaign can actually work long-term? 

 FRED ANDERSON: We don't have hard - enough hard data yet, as I've said, but anecdotally, early reports are that it's a good program. 

 ANALYST: Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thank you, Howard. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question comes from Charles Wolf with Needham. 

 ANALYST: Hi, Fred. 

 Maybe Ron is going to cover this tomorrow, but I was interested in the number of visitors to the store in the June quarter and the percentage of purchases by non-Mac visitors of the total Macs sold in the stores. Is he going to cover that? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Charlie, he is. If I could just defer that to tomorrow, Ron's going to give about a 30-minute presentation and be available for the Q and A, and I know there - you know, rightfully so, there's continued interest in the retail store, but if I - I've already answered a few things that he was going to cover and if I covered too much, I've preempted his presentation, so if I could defer that, I'd appreciate it. 

 ANALYST: Fine. The other question I have is you mentioned restructuring charges in the September quarter. Can you give us any idea what the magnitude might be? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Currently, we think that - we believe that it will be less than 10 million. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Fine. Thanks a lot. 

 FRED ANDERSON: You're welcome. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Charlie. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Yes. And just a reminder, it is star 1 to signal for a question. Next we'll be to Richard Chu with SG Cowen Securities. 

 ANALYST: Thank you very much. A couple things. I'd like to go back to the channel inventory point again. 

 I'd like to just understand finally, is it - what you're saying that you need to reduce the weeks of the channel inventory looking backwards on a five-week computation basis by the end of September. In order to get there, is it your sense that you need to get actual physical units down from the end of June levels? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yes. Let me be clear. We calculate channel inventory two ways. I mean, obviously channel inventory that you end with is for future sales. I think you would agree. And so what we try to do is calculate it both on a five-week backward look - okay? - and also this next quarter forward looking. So take the average weekly sell-through by taking your sell-through, your forecasting, dividing by 13. 

 Now, it happens to be they both - both calculations converge very close to 6.5 weeks in terms of channel inventory at the end of the June quarter. 

 We feel that, you know, the channel inventory, you know, if you were to strip out demo units and you were to strip out in-transits and so forth, we're not in any dangerous situation like we were back in the - if you remember the September quarter of 2000. It's not that way at all. It's just that we're a little longer than we'd like to be. 

 As I've said previously, we like to try to manage in the 4 to 5-week range, and so I think 5 is fine in terms of a desirable target, so we're about a week-and-a-half above that level, and we'd like to bring that down over the next two quarters. And that implies that absolute unit channel inventory will decline, that's planned to decline, in terms of the guidance we've given, in the September quarter, and then again in the December quarter. 

 ANALYST: Okay. And you made reference to price protection being larger at the end of June. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Than I had expected on June 18th, yes. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Is it - for the quarter as a whole, can you size that relative to recent quarter levels, and does your guidance for September contemplate similar levels or higher levels of price protection? 

 FRED ANDERSON: Wow! 

 ANALYST: Given especially what you said with respect to the need to take down price structures - 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. 

 ANALYST: - given currency, et cetera. 

 FRED ANDERSON: You know, I would like to just not get into that. Let me tell you why. Because obviously the price protection that we have accrued at the end of the June quarter takes into account planned product introductions for the September quarter. As I stated earlier. But now you want to go out to the December quarter, which gets into planned product introductions in the December quarter, and, wow, that's a little far out, and so I don't want to give a precise answer to that. 

 But I - 

 ANALYST: Do you couple that - from product introductions as opposed to pricing action. 

 FRED ANDERSON: I can't - I can't - well, you know, normally we don't take pricing actions except when we introduce replacement products, just so you understand. The only time we've ever done that was when we - Motorola, back two, three years ago, was not able to get us enough G4 chips, if you remember, and so we had to go change the SKUs that we had made available, and that resulted in some de facto price changes, and we then had a price increase due to increase in LCD prices and DRAM, as you know, in the spring of this calendar year. 

 And so aside from those two, I can't remember us ever just making a price change as a company, since I've been with the company, other than in conjunction with a product transition. 

 So they're tied to product transitions, is what I'm trying to tell you. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Thank you. We'll talk to you tomorrow. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Richard. Could we have the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Yes. Our next question is a follow-up question from Andrew Neff with Bear Stearns. 

 ANALYST: Just a quick question on the cutbacks you're doing in terms of layoffs. You'd made a point in the past couple quarters that, you know, you had not done layoffs and there seems to be a significant change in terms of your view of things. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Well, no, I - let me just be clear. I said limited - what I'm saying is, and we have been doing over the last year, there hasn't been any across-the-board layoff at Apple. Let me be very clear. But we have, you know - that's what I was saying. Someone asked, "Well, how are you able to fund some of these new initiatives, increased R and D, your new retail initiative?" It's been that we've been cutting back in infrastructure areas, and it included some, you know, termination of people in areas where we felt they weren't an important commitment of resources that would drive the growth of the company. And so we've been reallocating resources all along, over the last year, on a limited basis, which has certainly helped us to be able to hold our expenses fairly flat. 

 And I'm just suggesting that we'll - we'll continue those kinds of activities potentially in the - in the September quarter, and clearly, we, you know, announced the layoff on July 7th of 7% of our people in the Sacramento factory. 

 ANALYST: Okay. And the second question was just a follow-up question. Just in looking at the flat-panel iMac, are you - you know, I guess are there - I guess we'll see some of this tomorrow, in terms of what's been rumored, but what do you do to stimulate significant growth going forward? I mean, is there - what do you have in the pipeline, or are there things in the pipeline that can lead to that, given that this is probably falling short of our expectations sooner than you would have thought. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Yeah, if I could just come back to the other point. I mean, you may have also noticed, just to tie together what I said, that our head count as a company has not been declining overall, which kind of supports my reallocation of resources. In fact, our head count was up slightly from the end of the March quarter to the June quarter. So I just wanted to kind of put that in an overall context for you. So I'm sorry. Go ahead to your next question. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Just saying in terms of what our - how are you planning to address the flat-panel iMac coming in short of expectations so early in the cycle of a new product? I guess we'll see some of that tomorrow, but are there any other things that you have that could help generate significant growth over the next couple quarters or next year? 

 FRED ANDERSON: I think we have - we're continuing to invest heavily in new products. I'm not going to get into, you know, what's coming this quarter or in the December quarter. As you know, we don't talk about future products. But, you know, clearly we're very focused as a management team on bringing great products to market that can help drive the growth of the company. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Thanks very much, Fred. 

 FRED ANDERSON: Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON: Thanks, Andy, and thanks to everyone for joining us. And as we've mentioned a couple times today, we'll be hosting a financial analysts' meeting tomorrow, beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. eastern time, 8:00 a.m. Pacific time. And the meeting will be audio webcast and can be accessed through the analysts meeting link at www.Apple.com/investor. 

 As for today's call, a recording will be available for replay for seven days, beginning at 5:00 p.m. Pacific time today, and the number for the replay is 719-457-0820, and the confirmation code is 465947. And members of the press with additional questions can contact Lynn Fox at 408-974-6209. Financial analysts' can contact Joan Hoover or me with additional questions. Joan is at 408-974-4570 and I am at 408-974-5420. And thanks again, to everyone for joining us. 

 OPERATOR: This does conclude today's00:51:46 conference. You may now disconnect. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | i836 : Accounting | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021226dy7g000hy
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q3  2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
2,296 words
   PD
16 July 2002
   ET
09:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Fred Anderson, EVP,CFO   . Peter Oppenheimer, SVP,Finance   . Gary Whistler (phonetic), VP-Corporate Treasurer   . Nancy Bagston (phonetic), Director of Investor Relations,     Corporate Finance 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Apple reports 3Q02 net income of $32m, on revenues of $1.4b. 3Q02 EPS is $0.09. Revenues and earnings fall short of original estimates. Analyst Q&A focuses on progress of marketing and retail campaigns, and higher than expected channel inventory. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data From Call  1)3Q02 revenues=$1.4b 2)3Q02 EPS=$0.09 3)3Q02 Gross Margin=27.4%  4)3Q02 Operating Expenses=$378m 5)Tax Rate=25% 6)4Q02 Operating  Expense Guidance=$390m 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. Overview (FA)  Results 

 1. 3Q02 was very challenging.   2. Company did not get uplift in computer demand expected in May      and June.   3. 3Q02 revenues totaled $1.4b, 11% below original guidance.   4. 3Q02 EPS was $0.09, less than $0.11 original guidance.   5. Results fell in middle of revised guidance given on June 18.   6. Apple shipped 808k CPUs in 3Q02.   7. This represented a 1% sequential decline.   8. Industry data shows weakness across all market segments for June      quarter, and weakness relative to March quarter.   9. On a regional basis IDC has forecast sequential decline of 20%      in Japan for PC unit shipments, 16% decline in Europe and 2%      decline in U.S.   10. IDC also projected 15% worldwide decline in PC sales to      consumer, and 6% decline in small office market.   11. These results will be published within the next week.   12. NPD Techn also forecast year to year PC sales worldwide for      April and May declined 17% and 7% respectively.   13. Apple results fell short of original plan by $171m revenue and      100k CPUnits.   14. On geographic basis half of shortfall in units and revenue was      in Europe, with Japan and Americas accounting for remainder.   15. Most significant areas of sequential weakness were Europe and      Japan.   16. Unit shipments were down 24% and 25% respectively.   17. Industry research shows education business continues to be soft      due to declining tax revenues.   18. Apple's total U.S. education market unit shipments were below      original forecast by 7% and down 17% year to year.   19. This is comparable to IDC projection for total education      market.   20. Based on projections company beleives education market share remains 20%, flat with a year ago.   21. 80% of unit and revenue shortfall was attrivuatable to the iMac      flat panel and Pro products including PowerBook and PowerMac.   22. Company was surprised and disappointed in shortfall.   23. company had shipped 220k of iMac in March quarter, and entered      June quarter with healthy backlog.   24. Demand slowed in May and June counter to expectations.   25. Company was concerned about having too much product accumulate      in channel. 26. Company reduced planned sell-in in latter part of quarter, allowing them to exit quarter with 19% fewer iMacs at end of quarter.   27. PowerMac and PowerG4 were weaker due to slowing economy particularly in Europe, which accounts for significant portion of business.   28. Company did not see jump in sales as expected following      introduction of PhotoShop7.   29. Also, believe many customers are deferring upgrades until      Jacquar and Quark Express for Mac OS10 are available.   30. Excluding eMac channel inventories were down by 20k units      sequentially.   31. Including the eMac total inventories were up by 8k units.   32. Ending units were flat, but weeks of inventory rose to 6.5      weeks.   33. Goal is to return to normal 4-5 week level.   34. Company feels good about retail stores.   35. Company opened two new stores bringing total to 31.   36. Retail unit shipmments were down sequentially to 20k units from      24k, and revenues fell to $63m.   37. Retail segment loss increased to $6m from $4m.   38. Company still expects break-even in segment by December. 39. Gross margin was originally expected to decrease by 100 basis points.   40. Based on decline in cost of components and earlier expected      achievements in cost-reduction gross margins were actually flat      at 27.4%.   41. Company didn't achieve goals because it shipped fewer new      X-Serve (phonetic) servers than anticipated. 42. Company also booked more price protection than anticipated.   43. Operating expenses were $378m, $5m beleow 2Q02.   44. $9m in development costs were capitalized during quarter, and      will be amortized over three years.   45. Other income and expense was $1m sequentially due to lower      average portfolio yields.   46. Company believes tax rate for FY02 will be 25% rather than 28%.   47. Company ended quarter with $4.3b cash.   48. Company expects 4Q02 revenues will be flat, with contiunued soft economy.   49. Company expects operating expenses to increase to $390m.   50. This is because it won't be capitalizing as much software      development, R&D will be higher and there will be increased      retail related costs.   51. Company expects other income and expense will be down due to      lower interest income.   52. Tax rate is expected to be 25%.   53. Company overall expects to have slight profit before      non-recurring items.   54. There will be a restructuring charge in 4Q02 for Sacramento      facility, plus possibly other charges.   55. Company also has investments in Earthlink and Archimide      (phoentic) which may lead to impairment charge if they remain      40% or more below book value.   56. Company is positive about long-term growth potential,      encouraged by retail sales and the switching from Wintel      marketing campaign.   57. Many great products are in pipeline. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1. (Rebecca Runkel, Morgan Stanley)  could you discuss the impact of foreign currency on P and L for the  quarter? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  We normally hedge out currency six months ahead, so our cash-flows  are locked-in at a rate based on our option. So the June quarter was  actually locked-in when the dollar was stronger. So it probably had  a positive benefit for 3Q, though I can't tell you exactly. 

 Q2. (Kimberly Alexei (phonetic), Prudential)  Your revenue guidance seemed cautious. I had several questions. Is  there any sign of a early back to school market trend? On marging,  what is your outlook on costs? how are you doing on store  promotions, and is there any data yet on how the "Wintel" switching  campaign is doing? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  Anecdotally Wintel switching is off to a good start, but there are  no hard numbers yet. We're getting good reports from the stores that  PC users are looking to switch to Apples. So that's promising. On  September outlook we're very cautious. Back in june we expected a  flat industry performance, but as you heard all the industry  indicators showed a shapr drop. Given that current weakness we're  staying cautious. We don't expect a normal back to school uplift this year. But we're holding our 20% share in the education market.  We expect September to be relatively similar to the June quarter. On margins we're cautious guiding down 100 basis points. The reason is we're going to have to make some pricing adjustments with the  decline of the dollar and strength of the Euro. As far as component  cost we expect a stable environment. 

 Q3. (Andrew Neff, Bear Stearns)  As far as retail what's the plan for beyond the quarter, and for  stores outside the U.S.? How far out are you looking? Do you see  more than 50 stores? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  We plan to end the year with 50 stores, and we currently have 31.  There's no plan right now for any stores yet outside the U.S. We're  doing the store expansion in a very controlled phased by phase way.  So after this year we'll decide what to do beyond 50. 

 Q4. (Andrew Neff, Bear Stearns)  What's the reaction from resellers? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  In the analysis we've done so far we do as well in areas with  channel partners as in areas without them. So it doesn't appear to  be hurting channel partner sales. 

 Q5. (Walter Wininski (phonetic), First Albany)  Could you quantify channel reduction impact in 4Q unit and revenue?  Your goal is to bring inventory down to 4-5 weeks by December. Will  that have a negative impact on booked revenue? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  Basically we're looking for a very gradual progression in reduction  toward 4-5 weeks from 6.5 weeks currently. So it's a 1.5 week  reduction over two quarters, half in the Septemebr quarter and half  in the December quarter. 

 Q6. (Walter Winisnski (phonetic), First Albany)  Even with all the good new products do you get a sense that, as in  the PC world, consumer buying cycles on computers are just getting  longer? That that may be a cause of the weak sales? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  Well, going into the June quarter we had many new awesome products.  We had a really strong flat panel iMac backlog, and we expected it  to have great legs. So honestly we're disappointed, but it's not  just Apple, it's industry wide. We were also disappointed that the  Pro products didn't do better. We see a weakness in the creative markets too. Apple Macintosh's share is strong, but it looks like customers are deferring upgrades longer. 

 Q7. (Don Young, UBS Warburg)  You had projected on June 18 a much lower channel inventory  estimate. Why was there such a difference? Were June sales that bad? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  Let me clarify that Don. What I estimated on June 18 was units. We  expected them as flat. I had at that time three weeks of  sell-through information, which I did not have. But we only ended up  by 8k units, so that was pretty close to flat. But I never said 5.5 weeks. I stayed clear of projecting weeks. We didn't miss by far. 

 Q8. (Don Young, UBS Warburg)  Apple seems to launch products way before they ship, and you get a  front-end surge, which dies down. Are you thinking about changing  the strategy? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  I haven't discussed that with the marketing people, but we have no  plans for any changes. 

 Q9. (Richard Gardner, Solomon Smith Barney)  What do you think the long-term operating model for the company is?  And, in light of the operating margin and profitablity weakness, why  not reconsider opening all those stores now? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  Well the additional 19 stores for this year are already in process.  The locations are awesome and we're confident retail initiatives  will be key to new growth. We're very close to break-even on retail.  With the limited visibility now I'd rather not go into operating  model long-term here. Except to say we're making the necessary  investments to grow long-term. We're still profitable, only one of  two computer companies that is right now. Even in this environment. 

 Q10. (Howard (indiscernible), Metro West)  how did you accomplish your SG&A improvements? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  We have really tight expense control and have brought down  infrastructure costs in particular. That's allowed us to increase  investment in marketing, R&D and retailing. Steve Jobs has a vision  of increasing share by moving people away from the PC, and we're  focusing on that. 

 Q11. (Howard (indiscernible), Metro West)  If you have that confidence in the switching campaign, why not add  more money? Do you have any doubts about the campaign? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  We're trying to strike a balance between long-term growth of market  share and short-term profitability. As I said there's no hard data  yet, but early signs on the campaign are positive. 

 Q12. (Charles Watt (phonetic))  Do you have a number of visitors to stores in the quarter? And the  number of sales by non-Mac users? What's the magnitude of the  September restructuirng charges? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  I'll have to defer that to tommorrow. We'll get into that. We think  the charges will be less than $10m. 

 Q13. (Richard Chu, SG Cowen)  To reach your actual channel inventory goal do you need to get your  actual physical units down? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  We calculate channel inventory both by looking backward 5 weeks, and  by a next-quarter forward look. As it happens both converged at 6.5  weeks this quarter. We don't see that as a dangerous situtation, but  it's a little longer than we'd like. In absolute units yes there  will be a decline. 

 Q14. (Richard Chu, SG Cowen)  Will the September and December quarters see more price protection  compared to other quarters? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  I'd rather not get into that because we have several new product  introductions. Price changes are historically tied to product  transitions. 

 Q15. (Andrew Neff, Bear Stearns)  You've said in the past you didn't need to make mass lay-offs like  some other companies. It looks like you've changed that policy. 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  We've had no across the board lay-offs. As i said earlier, we did  work on cutting infrastructure costs. That has entailed limited  lay-offs in a few areas. We had to cut 75 of the Sacramento facility  workforce in July. But overall headcount in the company was up for  the June quarter. 

 Q16. (Andrew Neff, Bear Stearns)  With the flat panel iMac falling short, how can you stimulate  growth? 

 A. (Fred Anderson)  We're continuing to invest in new products, and have several great  products in the pipeline, but I can't talk about them today. We have  a lot of really awesome products and we're focused on driving growth  through them. 

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy7g0054t
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q2  2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
5,240 words
   PD
17 April 2002
   ET
09:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Nancy Paxton, Director - IR & Corporate Finance   . Peter Oppenheimer, Sr. VP Finance   . Fred Anderson, CFO   . Garry (Indiscernible), VP & Treasurer 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Experienced significant sequential growth in the education channel, but overall market continues to be impacted by tax revenue shortfall. The highlight of the quarter was the introduction of the new iMac. Consumer sales accelerated throughout the quarter as the new iMac was shipped. Q&A Focus: iMac. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data From Call   1. In FYQ2, Apple generated revenues of $1.5b 2. Generated EPS of $0.11.   3. Gross margins were down to 27.4%.   4. Ended the quarter with $4.3b in cash and short-term investment. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. 2Q02 RESULTS   1. In FYQ2, Apple generated revenues of $1.5b and EPS of $0.11      consistent with the guidance issued earlier in the quarter.   2. Revenues and units were each up 9% sequentially contrary to the      normal seasonal decline experienced in the overall PC industry.   3. On a YoverY basis revenues were up 4% and units were up 8%.   4. The highlight of the quarter was the introduction of the new iMac, which met with rave reviews and tremendous customer enthusiasm.   5. Shipped a total of 220,000 units of new iMac during the quarter.   6. Production was fully ramped and expects to meet the current      demand forecast this quarter.   7. The portable products continue to sustain good momentum with      combined iBook and power book shipments up 22% YoverY.   8. Power Mac unit sales were flat sequentially.   9. Shipped 57,000 iPOD units during the quarter.   10. There are over 3600 products running on Mac OS  X.   11. Experienced significant sequential growth in the education      channel but overall market continues to be impacted by tax      revenue shortfall.   12. Consumer sales accelerated throughout the quarter as the new      iMac was shipped.   13. Began the second phase of expansion of the Apple edge      (Phonetic) program with COMPUSA, staffing an additional 60 locations with Apple personnel.   14. Provideo market solutions showed strong growth during the      quarter.   15. The company added 75 more (Indiscernible) during the quarter,      doubling the size of our Provideo sales channel.   16. Pro customers in other creative markets such as advertising and      publishing continue to delay purchases ofProproduct in 2Q.   17. Photoshop 7 began shipping on  4/16/02.   18. Entered the quarter with about 4.5 weeks of channel inventory.   19. Unit inventories were down 14% from the Dec. quarter excluding      the new iMac.   20. Financial status of retail stores continues to improve. 21. Revenues through the retail segment in March quarter totaled $70m, and retail segment loss improved to $4m from $8m in the      Dec. quarter.   22. An average of 27 stores were opened during the last quarter      implying an average annualized revenue rate of over $10m per      store.   23. Opened two stores late in the quarter, taking the total to 29.   24. 1.7m people visited the company stores during the quarter. This      translates into 5000 visitors per store per week. 25. Planning to open 20 more retail stores in the current calendar year.   26. Financial performance of the stores is expected to improve as      the year progresses.   27. Gross margins were down substantially to 27.4%.   28. The decline was due to higher component cost, airfreight      associated with the new iMac, and the greater mix of iMac      relative to the Dec. quarter.   29. Operating expenses were down $25m sequentially to $381m due to      seasonal reductions in promotional spending and benefits from      reduction and infrastructure.   30. Apple's balance sheet remains very strong.   31. Ended the quarter with $4.3b in cash and short-term investment.   32. The cash conversion cycle remains the best in the industry at      -41 days. 

 B. OUTLOOK   1. Expects the revenues to be up sequentially to $1.6b. 2. Expects EPS to be flat to up slightly compared with the previous quarter due to lower gross margin.   3. Expects gross margins to be sequentially lower due to higher      average component cost will be higher and we will not get the      full benefit of the recent iMac price increase this quarter.      APPL plans to continue to airfreight more iMacs until it catches      up with demand.   4. The June quarter corresponds with the beginning of the      education-buying season, and the mix iMac and iBook is expected      to rise.   5. Expects gross margins on the new iMac to improve on the Sept.      quarter.   6. Expects operating expense to be relatively flat with the March quarter.   7. Income and other expenses will be sequentially flat and the tax      rate continues to be about 28%.   8. Looking forward, AAPL is very optimistic about the prospects for      the future and feels very positive about the investments it has      made during the last year. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  You mentioned that there was some significant backlog. Could you quantify that and help us to get a sense of how strong the demand  is? What type of buyers are we seeing, both in terms of what you are  seeing through the stores and just the other data you are picking up  on? (Kimberly Alexy - Prudential Securities) 

 A.  We made a habit of not disclosing our order backlog, but it is currently very significant. We have not seen any fall off in sales after the price increase. So we remain very optimistic about the strong momentum we have continuing on the new iMac. As to the types  of customers, we haven't got a statically significant survey done  yet on the new iMac. So I don't have any data to share with you  other than anectodally (Phonetic). We are finding that there are lot  of Wintel users who are buying the new iMac. That is evidenced by  the recent article in Business Week and also the comments from  Amazon in terms of the sales that they have been making to a lot of  Wintel users. So we have lot of evidence that there are significant  buyers of the new iMac who are not currently Mac users. 

 Q2.  You made comments on the ASP increases that you (Indiscernible) get  the full impact of it in the current quarter because of the backlog.  So I am trying to think through that going into Sept. quarter when  you get the full impact of that. Does that somewhat get offset by higher percentage of education (Phonetic) during Sept. quarter? You made some comments on gross margin better in the quarter. Were you talking (Indiscernible) for the total company or were you talking about the iMac product? (Daniel Niles - Lehman Brothers) 

 A.  About the mix issue, typically both the June and Sept. quarters are  very strong for education. In fact, I would say they are  equal and  last year the June quarter was even a little stronger than the Sept.  quarter. The biggest K12 (Phonetic) quarter, where Apple had its strongest position in education, was the June quarter. So, I don't think that the mix would be more toward the iMac because of the education in the Sept. quarter vs. the June quarter. As relates to  the gross margin on the new iMac, I believe that it is going to move  back up in the Sept. quarter to a more normal level. In other words  at very acceptable satisfactory level of gross margin due to not  only a full quarter benefit from the new price increase of $100 per  skew (Phonetic), but secondly the office (Phonetic) group is working  on a number of cost reduction initiatives on the new iMac which  should be fully realized in the Sept. quarter. I would see far or  less airfreighting in the Sept. quarter. We are planning on a well  over half of the unit going out to be airfreighted in the June  quarter and there is a substantial unit dollar difference between  putting it on the water vs. airfreight. So I think, overall our  gross margin should be higher in the Sept. quarter, substantially  higher than in the June quarter. 

 Q3.  I didn't quite grasp it what you had to say about what was contributing to the relative robustness of the pro-product  (Phonetic), particularly given the age of the microprocessors in  there. If you could reiterate that, I could appreciate it. On the  Steve's comments on 03/21/02 in Tokyo, where you said iMac shipping  rates have been increased to 5,000 a day or the production volumes  has increased 5000 a day, if you add that up you still get better  than that. Were there further increases in the production rates and  are those production rates sustainable given the available supply of  flat panels? (Daniel Kunstler - J.P Morgan) 

 A.  Yes, it went up substantially. In the last 10 days, there were another 90,000-95,000 units that were produced and shipped. So it  went up closer to 9,000-10,000 a day level. We don't a capacity  level constraint in terms of unit production per day that is a real constraint. The constraint is the availability of the components  that might be in short supply. So what you saw was that we had all  the components that we needed coming in the last 10 days of the  quarter and therefore we were able to ramp up production  substantially. 

 Q4.  Is this level of production is sustainable given what you have got  and what you think you have in terms of components (Indiscernible) in the next 90 days (something north of 5)? (Daniel Kunstler - J.P Morgan) 

 A.  If you look at 90-day production quarter, I wouldn't say it would be  north of 5. 

 Q5.  (Indiscernible) component constraints have not really gone. Is that  a fair statement? (Daniel Kunstler - J.P Morgan) 

 A.  Well it all depends on demand. We expect to be able to catch up with  demand this quarter. 

 Q6.  Could you comment on the pro side? (Daniel Kunstler - J.P Morgan) 

 A.  On the pro side, we have added 75 more barge (Phonetic) during the quarter, which doubled the size of our pro video sales channel and  we had a very good quarter in the whole video segment selling final  cut pro and EBD (Phonetic) studio pro. So we are doing very well in  that segment. That has been our primary strength. In the traditional creative (Phonetic) market segments of advertising and publishing,  we have seen continued delays of purchases there because of the weak economy and last quarter they still didn't have Photoshop or (Indiscernible), but Photoshop began shipping yesterday. So I would say that the pro business was pretty flat QtoQ and the strength was really in the video segment. 

 Q7.  Are you seeing any benefit to the pro large (Phonetic) from the Apple stores? (Daniel Kunstler - J.P Morgan) 

 A.  I would say that they are getting pro customers as well as consumers, but the real strength is coming from (Indiscernible) network and the market acceptance of the final cut pro, which has  been very strong. 

 Q8.  On the component issue, if you look at the basket of components, you  obviously seen couple of components roll over here recently. Has that helped at all with the recent prices and the prices that you  have seen? Is the basket still going up and what do you think the  outlook is for 2Q? Could you tell us specifically which components  you are having a tough time getting aside from flat panel displays?  (Richard Gardner - Salomon Smith Barney) 

 A.  The key thing about why we are being very cautious about this quarter is that, we saw a dramatic increase from Jan. to March in  most components, particularly DRAM, which tripled, and flat panels  which went up 25%. It is true that flat panels have stabilized. We  think that memory pricing peaked in 2Q at a level that was greater  that three times as I said the low point in 1Q. We believe that most  system providers increased memory content in response to the lower  prices of 1Q, which pushed demand above output levels in 2Q. So as  we look to the 3Q, we have seen moderate decreases in memory pricing  in April and expect flat-todecreasing pricing throughout the quarter  in terms of DRAM. For LCDs, continued growth in LCD monitor demand  drew (Phonetic) 2Q prices to levels that were 25% above 1Q and we  expect the market to remain tight throughout 3Q with prices up very  slightly. 

 Q9.  When exactly do we get beyond the impact of your having to take care  of the previously promised pricing on the iMac? (Richard Gardner - Salomon Smith Barney) 

 A.  I would say probably May, as when we get passed that. 

 Q10.  Could you give us an update on your efforts to broaden your retail  channel? (Richard Gardner - Salomon Smith Barney) 

 A.  As it relates to the expansion of COMPUSA, we just added 60 more stores, so we are up now to about 150 stores out of 200 plus. So the main focus has been on expanding and (Phonetic) COMPUSA, which has been a very successful program where we have seen substantially  higher sales productivity with our own Apple batch employees. We  also are piloting some programs in Europe. We have piloted one in UK  with Dickson (Phonetic) and so we are looking also to replicate  potentially the COMPUSA success and the US in Europe. 

 Q11.  You said the tax rate is going to be 28% for the balance of this year. Is that true? (Andrew Neff - Bear Stearns & Co.) 

 A.  That's correct. That is our current forecast. 

 Q12.  In terms of gross margin impact in the next quarter, (Indiscernible)  is it reasonable or could you characterize that? (Andrew Neff - Bear  Stearns & Co.) 

 A.  We have been conservative here and I think 100 basis points is the down side risk. 

 Q13.  Could that bounce back in September? (Andrew Neff - Bear Stearns &  Co.) 

 A.  It will bounce back above the March level in the Sept. quarter. 

 Q14.  About education, could you give us a little more detail about the  early indications of demand and also a little more detail on what you are doing to try to counteract that? (David Bailey - Gerard, Klauer, Mattison & Co.) 

 A.  It is too early to tell. This is the strong K12 quarter and we are in two weeks into it, but we are optimistic that we are going to  have a normal strong seasonal quarter. We have been doing extremely  well on the one-on-one deployment. What I mean by that is one mobile  computer for every student and for every teacher. We got over 20,000  unit order with Enrico (Phonetic), the state of Virginia. The roll  out is going extremely well. We are beginning to roll out in May,  which is over 30,000 units and we have other in the pipeline, what I  will call one-on-one initiatives. So the pipeline of those deals is  strong in terms of the possibility. So I think that the major  problem we encountered is the reduced tax-revenue base for the  schools that caused some of the big deals to differ out in the  future quarters from the 1Q and 2Q as a result of funding  constraint. 

 Q15.  Can you give us any indication of the number of Mac OS X licencership (Phonetic)? (David Bailey - Gerard, Klauer, Mattison & Co.) 

 A.  We are not talking specifically about the (Indiscernible) finished goods box sale, but we have shipped over 3m systems with Mac OS X loaded since May. 

 Q16.  What was the breakdown between Mac and non-Mac customers in terms of  purchases during the quarter? (Charles Wolf - Needham & Co.) 

 A.  We don't have any recent survey that I can point to, but it is continuing to run close to 40% on Mac users. 

 Q17.  What was the ASP (Phonetic) of Mac sold in the stores? (Charles Wolf  - Needham & Co.) 

 A.  It is a little higher than (Indiscernible) beyond the box and the mixing up to the higher end scale (Phonetic). 

 Q18.  Are you continuing to attract substantial number or percentage of  non-Mac customers to the store? (Charles Wolf - Needham & Co.) 

 A.  Our CPU unit sales are continuing to run close to 40% non-Mac users. 

 Q19.  Could you talk about visitors? (Charles Wolf - Needham & Co.) 

 A.  Traffic remained very strong in the quarter. We had a 1.7m (Phonetic) (Indiscernible) stores in the quarter, which was up essentially from the prior quarter. We don't have any current stand  on the mix of visitors that were Mac vs. non-Mac, but my belief is  that if the close rate of CPU is higher on Mac cut, it would be on  Wintel user because they obviously take typically several visits  before you can close them. My view would be that it is substantially  higher than the CPU mix of 40%. 

 A.  Sorry. we don't have (Indiscernible) down out for you but my belief  is the close rate is higher in Mac customers than it would be on  Intel user because they typically take several visits before you can  close them. My view would be that it is substantially higher than the CPU mix of 40%. 

 Q20.  I was wondering if you guys have any kind of survey days (Phonetic)  that would indicate the percentage of Mac users that are using  iMovie, or iTunes, or iDVD - the digital software? (Charles Wolf - Needham & Co.) 

 A.  No we don't. We gave out recently some data on the number of SuperDrive and we had downloads of iPhotos which was one in a  quarter million that has been introduced (Phonetic) in more than  half a million in SuperDrive. All the indications are that it is  really building. That strategy is beginning to work and it is paying  off, but I can't give you specific data as to your specific  question. 

 Q21.  Could you give us an idea of how far out have you have committed prices? If LCD screens or DRAM prices should fall precipitously (Phonetic) in the (Indiscernible) markets in May, when would that  show up? (Don Young - UBS Warburg (US)) 

 A.  Very soon. 

 Q22.  So in other words, does that mean that you are moving with the market? (Don Young - UBS Warburg (US)) 

 A.  Yes. 

 Q23.  Looking at gross margins, you have given a lot of specific guidance  for the next quarter, but the current quarter is 300 basis points  below what you did for the prior six months roughly. Where do you  think do they target the model for Apple once you get through this unusual pricing in component period? What is your target model for your gross margin based on the kind of mix you are running today?  (Don Young - UBS Warburg (US)) 

 A.  I would like to see at least 28%. 

 Q24.  But not back to 30? (Don Young - UBS Warburg (US)) 

 A.  We would like to have a better balance of significant top line growth in maintaining gross margins at 28% or slightly better. In other words, I'd rather see the company growing at 15-20% on the top line than having 30-31% gross margin. 

 Q25.  On the stores, the performance was pretty back and loaded (Phonetic)  like the rest of the company. Were you able to break in to the black  on a profitability basis in the month of March? (Don Young - UBS  Warburg (US)) 

 A.  I would say that the stores were less back and loaded (Phonetic) little bit than the overall results for the company. We were really pleased with the growth in revenues from $48m to $70m and cutting  the loss in half from $8m to $4m. We are trying to drive to  profitability as soon as we can. I am certainly hopeful that before  the end of the calendar year, we can have a profitable quarter for  our retail business. 

 Q26.  You mentioned that backlog should be out of the way in May. Would  that be early or late May? (Brett Miller - A.G. Edwards & Sons) 

 A.  I would say early May. 

 Q27.  We saw a slowdown in store openings. Is there any linearity (Phonetic) or guidance in opening new stores that we should (Indiscernible) on? (Brett Miller - A.G. Edwards & Sons) 

 A.  It was intentional that we decided to take a breeder (Phonetic) after our first 27 and evaluate the business model and what tweaks (Phonetic) if any were appropriate and then crank up a plan for this calendar year. As soon as we did that, we had committed the real estate and everything when we gave you the updated target of going from 29 to another 20 stores which should put us at 49 or very close to 50. 

 Q28.  So coming back around to what you all learned, one thing that you  talked about was that the close rates (Phonetic) were little lower at the stores. Were there any other things that you learned in other metrics and things that are changing in the stores? (Brett Miller - A.G. Edwards & Sons) 

 A.  I really don't want to go into that at this time. I am sure that our  retail business will have some updates. We are incredibly pleased with the stores. It was absolutely the right decision to put our stores in upscale malls and life style centers where we have high traffic. It was absolutely the right decision to carry inventory so that customers could walk out the door with a Macintosh. It was absolutely the right decision to focus on service as opposed to high-powered sales tactics, because 99% of the visitors to our  stores would recommend it to their friends. We also wanted people  who are knowledgeable of our products and the advantages of our  digital life style applications. It was absolutely the right  decision that we should have solution centers. We confirmed a lot of  things. We concluded that there were a few tweaks (Phonetic) that we  should make and you will see than incorporated in stores that we  open in 2H02. 

 Q29.  Can you go through the guidance for the current quarter? Is it an  issue of getting enough components or is it a demand issue being conservative? Could you put a little color on that for me? (Walter (Indiscernible) - First Holding) 

 A.  We were up unlike many companies in this industry YoverY and sequentially, both in units and revenue and sequentially normally,  the March quarter is a down quarter for the PC industry. Because of  the strength of the new iMac, we were able to run (Indiscernible)  and actually show growth. As it relates to this quarter, we are  talking about further growth sequentially by another $100m to $1.6b  and that would also be up $125m over the June quarter of last year  when we did $1.475b. So in this economic environment, those not only  are good results looking back over the last quarter but good growth  expectations for the coming quarter. As to earnings being flat to up  slightly, we are being a little conservative because of  uncertainties still surrounding future component costs and I don't  want to be wrong. The flat part is being ultraconservative  (Phonetic). 

 Q30.  So, it is not an issue of limitations on either manufacturing or getting enough components (Indiscernible) demand to be a little  better than you expected? (Walter (Indiscernible) - First Holding) 

 A.  We expected to be able to get caught up with demand on the new iMac  this quarter. 

 Q31.  From an iBook standpoint and an iPOD standpoint, were the performance roughly in line with your expectations? (Steven Fortuna  - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  We expected a decline from 125,000 levels that we had in Dec. quarter consistent with a normal seasonal pattern. The information  we have is that there was actually about a 71% decline of MP3 player  sales between the Dec. quarter of 2000 and the March quarter of  2001. We had a decline of about a little over 50%. Actually we have  less of a decline in the marketplace and are every pleased with the  iPOD and have strong expectations for it going forward. Regarding  iBook, we are very pleased with our results in the quarter for  iBook, we were up 156% (Phonetic) YoverY doing well both in the  channel and particularly in education. 

 A.  We were really pleased with the results in the quarter for iBook. We  were up 156% YoverY doing well both in the channel and particularly in education. We have a great product line up there that is being  met well in all customer segment. 

 Q32.  What should we be thinking about APEX dollars for the June quarter - flattish or up a little bit? Is there any opportunity to further cut  cost even if it is modest? (Steven Fortuna - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  We saw benefits from our restructuring programs last quarter (Indiscernible) put in place this quarter. We continue to manage the infrastructure area very tightly looking to save money where we can, but we continue to invest aggressively in R&D and hardware-software, and applications and continue to invest in retail programs. In June  we should be roughly flat with the March quarter. 

 Q33.  Do you have any note worthy commentary regarding the various geographies in which you play? (Steven Fortuna - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  All of our geographies did very well internationally in the last quarter particularly in Europe and saw a nice rebound in  Asia-Pacific on the strength of the new iMac. 

 Q34.  I find that my new 14-inch iBook here to be really terrific and I  was wondering whether that was running substantially at greater gains than the smaller iBook? ((Indiscernible) - Fredrick Research (Phonetic)) 

 A.  It did quite well in the quarter. 

 Q35.  Are you planning to send iBooks by air or are you planning to put  them on the ocean as well?  ((Indiscernible) - Fredrick Research (Phonetic)) 

 A.  We deliver most of out portables, the iBook and the PowerBook by air. 

 Q36.  So you are not looking to move that to the ocean, right? ((Indiscernible) - Fredrick Research (Phonetic)) 

 A.  No. When you have something that does not weigh a lot and take up a  lot of space, it tends to not be as (Indiscernible) between putting it on the water and air as a desktop. 

 Q37.  It is really pretty product. I can't imagine why you worked further  behind on backlog?((Indiscernible) - Fredrick Research (Phonetic)) 

 A.  Yes. We have that airfreighting going forward. 

 Q38.  Could you provide a little bit more color in terms of what you are  seeing in the government? (Rebecca (Indiscernible) - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  It is a small segment right now for Apple but it is growing. Last year it grew 60% YoverY. What we see is that there are a lot more government opportunities coming our way as a result of our new OS platform, Mac OS X and it has increased stability and robustness in security, which is very important to the government. So we are  seeing a good pipeline of opportunities and that is going to be a  high growth in terms of percentage growth opportunity for us going  forward. 

 Q39.  Can you do something similar this year in terms of your YoverY growth? (Rebecca (Indiscernible) - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  I don't want to commit to it, but I wouldn't be surprise. It is going to be very strong double digit. (Indiscernible) involved with our customer-briefing center and we have several government entities coming in for customer-briefing center visits and a lot of interest  in our new platform. 

 Q40.  You said that you expect about half the airfreight in June. Could  you clarify on that? (Rebecca (Indiscernible) - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  What I said is that we would have over half still being airfreighted  based on our current plan in the June quarter. 

 Q41.  What would you consider more of a normalized trend and/or how should  we be thinking about Sept. as it gets back to normalized level? (Rebecca (Indiscernible) - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  It is somewhere between half and three quarters airfreighted this quarter and maybe 25% or so in the Sept. quarter. There is something like a $35 delta (Phonetic) between the two. So it is significant. 

 Q42.  In a more normalized quarter, I assume there still may be some airfreight? (Rebecca (Indiscernible) - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  I don't think that the normalized level would be any more than 25%. 

 Q43.  You mentioned that you are anticipating or thinking about (Indiscernible) increasing slightly in the next quarter. Could you give us some parameters around that in terms of what types of increases would be significant beyond what you are currently  modeling? (Rebecca (Indiscernible) - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  We saw significant increase from the beginning of the Mar. quarter to the end, which represented around 25%. We saw only a slight  (maybe not more than $10 a unit on a (Indiscernible)) increase  possibility this quarter. 

 Q44.  At some point did you (Indiscernible) you thought 5000 a day was a  reasonable normalized (Indiscernible) for the new iMac this quarter?  (Richard Chu - SG Cowen Securities) 

 A.  I didn't exactly say that. I think it was in the context of Daniel (Indiscernible) asking me a question related to our ramping up to where we are able to do 9000 or 10,000 a day, in the last ten days  of the quarter. He was then asking about whether we had the  component supply levels to support that on a sustained basis, and I  said `No`, and then I said it would be something less than 5000 a  day. If you take 90 days in a quarter, even 5000 (Indiscernible) we  can't support that from a supply stand point. So, it would be  something less than 5000. But I am not giving you an exact number. 

 Q45.  Talking about price increases related to component cost, what are  you doing outside of the specific $100 increases that you have disclosed on the iMac and other product categories? Are you  observing component increases? (Richard Chu - SG Cowen Securities) 

 A.  Basically we haven't at this time raised any of our other products.  We had several projects underway in the non commodity area, such as  consolidating some of our existing supplier base, sourcing certain  components into lower cost countries and changing the manufacturing  process of certain (Indiscernible). The kinds of initiatives we  expect to enable us to make some significant cost reductions on the  new iMac. 

 Q46.  Are you very (Indiscernible) for gross margins in the past corner?  Was the absorption of auspicious (Phonetic) and non-new iMac at  least as significant as the mix of the LCD iMac. (Richard Chu - SG Cowen Securities) 

 A.  I think you are asking what the primary cost (Indiscernible), we are  more flat (Indiscernible) display vs. CRT than our competitors. The  de-ramp (Phonetic) prices tripled. Although we have seen that stabilize and begin to come down a little bit. 

 Q47.  What are you expectations with regard to (Indiscernible)? (Richard  Chu - SG Cowen Securities) 

 A.  It is a great product. I think we did 152,000 units of the CRT (Phonetic) iMac last quarter. We need a product (Indiscernible) for the consumer market and education, particularly in the sub 1000  place. But we don't get into future product discussion. 

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4h0034a
  


 HD
 AAPL -  Q2  2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
7,995 words
   PD
17 April 2002
   ET
09:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR:  Please stand by we are about to begin. 

 Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Apple Computer conference call to discuss second quarter financial results.  Today's call is being recorded.  At this time for opening remarks and introductions , I would like to turn the call over to Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance, Ms. Nancy Paxton.  Ms. Paxton, please go ahead now. 

   TD
 NANCY PAXTON, DIRECTOR OF INVESTING AND CORPORATE FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER:  Thank you, and good afternoon to everyone and thanks for joining us today.  Apple issued its second quarter press release at approximately 1:30 PM Pacific time today.  The earnings press release and financials are available on First Call as well as on Apple's website at www.apple.com.  And speaking today is Apples CFO, Fred Anderson.  And he'll be joined by senior VP of Finance, Peter Oppenheimer, and VP and Corporate Treasurer, Gary Whippler (ph), for the Q&A session with analysts. 

 Please note that some of the information you'll hear during this call consists of forward-looking statements and that actual results and trends could differ materially from our forecasts.  For more information, please refer to pages 25 through 32 of Apple's latest Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2001.  In connection with SEC rules on corporate disclosure, Apple is making this analyst call open to the media and general public by broadcasting the call live over the Internet.  And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Fred. 

 FRED ANDERSON, CFO, APPLE COMPUTERS:  Thank you, Nancy and thank you for joining us.  In fiscal Q2, Apple generated revenues of 1.5 billion and earnings per share of 11 cents, consistent with the guidance we issued earlier in the quarter. 

 Revenues and units were each up nine percent sequentially, contrary to the normal seasonal decline experienced in the overall PC industry. On a year over year basis, revenues were up 4 percent and units were up 8 percent. 

 The highlight of the quarter was the introduction of the new iMac, which has been met with rave reviews and tremendous customer enthusiasm. We shipped a total of 220,000 units of the new iMac during the quarter and, as expected, exited the quarter with significant backlog. Production was fully ramped by the end of the quarter, and we expect to meet our current demand forecasted quarter. 

 Our portable products continued to sustain good momentum with combined iBook and PowerBook shipments up 22 percent year over year.  PowerMac unit sales were flat sequentially.  We shipped 57,000 iPod units during the quarter and this product continues to generate very positive reviews.  In March we added a 10 gigabyte iPod to the line up and provided all iPod owners the ability to download and store contact lists with up to 1,000 names and addresses right alongside their music. 

 The Mac OS 10 transition continues to gain momentum.  Since the release of Mac OS 10.1 six months ago, the number of OS 10 native applications has more than doubled.  Today there are over 3,600 products running on over OS 10.  Mac OS 10 and its Unix foundation are driving renewed interest in Macintosh from government agencies, research universities, and scientific and technical establishments. 

 We experience significant sequential growth in our education channel, but overall, performance in this market continues to be impacted by tax revenue shortfalls.  We are making additional improvements in our coverage model to further expand our advocacy during the upcoming education buying season.  We continue to see significant interest in one on one deployment, and believe that this trend works to Apple's advantage strategically. 

 Our consumer sales accelerated throughout the quarter as we shipped the new iMac.  We are encouraged by the results in this market.  Last week, we began a second phase of expansion of the Apple badge program with CompUSA, staffing an additional 60 locations with Apple personnel. 

 Our ProVideo market solutions which include some key applications and hardware products showed strong growth during the quarter.  We believe that this is a function of our strong integrated products for this market, rather than a fundamental economic uptick.  We also added 75 more VAR's during the quarter, doubling the size of our ProVideo sales channel.  Other creative markets such as advertising and publishing continue to delay purchases of Pro products in Q2.  We believe that this is a function of both the weak economy as well as our own OS transition. PhotoShop 10, a key application for many of these customers, began shipping yesterday, and we are consequently optimistic for better results with Pro customers in the second half of the calendar year. 

 We continue the discipline of maintaining low inventories and ended the quarter with about 4 1/2 weeks of channel inventory.  Excluding the new iMac, shipments of which were skewed toward the end of the quarter, unit inventories were actually down 14 percent from the December quarter.  The financial performance of Apple's retail store segment continues to improve.  Revenues through our retail stores in the March quarter totaled $70 million and the retail segment loss improve to 4 million from 8 million in the December quarter.  An average of 27 stores were opened during the March quarter, implying and average annualized revenue rate of over 10 million per store.  We opened two additional stores late in the quarter bringing the current total to 29.  1.7 million people visited our stores during the quarter.  This translates into 5,000 visitors per store per week. 

 We remain very pleased with our retail strategy and firmly believe it is helping us reach out beyond our installed base of customers.  We are now targeting to open 20 more retail stores during the current calendar year.  We expect the financial performance of the stores to continue to improve as the year progresses. 

 As expected, Apple's gross margins were down substantially to 27.4 percent.  The decline was due to several factors.  Higher component costs, especially for flat panels and D ram, air freight associated with new iMac's, and a greater mix of iMac's relative to the December quarter.  Operating expenses were down 25 million sequentially to 381 million due to seasonal reductions in promotional spending and benefits from reductions in infrastructure. 

 Apple's balance sheet remains very strong.  We ended the quarter with 4.3 billion in cash and short term investments.  The cash conversion cycle remains the best in the industry at minus 41 days. 

 Now I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of information that Nancy referred to in the Safe Harbor statement at the beginning of the call.  While we expect that revenues will be up sequentially in the March quarter to about $1.6 billion, we expect EPS to be flat to up slightly compared with the March quarter due to lower gross margins.  We expect gross margins to be sequentially lower due to a number of factors. 

 First, average component costs will be higher and we will not get the full benefit of the recent iMac price increase this quarter as we honor much of the existing backlog at the old prices.  Second, we plan to continue to air freight most iMac's until we catch up with demand. And lastly, the June quarter corresponds with the beginning of the education buying season and the mix of iMac's and iBook's is expected to rise. 

 We are working on several cost reduction initiatives for the new iMac, but the benefits will not be fully realized in the June quarter.  We expect gross margins on the new iMac's to improve in the September quarter as we realize full quarter benefits from the cost reduction efforts and recent price increases and substantial reductions in air freight.  We expect operating expense to be relatively flat with the March quarter.  We also project that other income and expense will be sequentially flat and the tax rates continue to be about 28 percent. 

 Looking forward, we are very optimistic about our prospects for the future.  We are extremely pleased about the reaction to the new flat panel iMac.  Customer response and reviews have been tremendous and we are shipping in volume and hope to get caught up with demand soon. While most of our competitors have been reducing investment in R&D and headcount, Apple has been increasing its investment in R&D, investing in development of applications for the digital lifestyle, making strategic technology acquisitions like Power School, Nothing Real (ph), Spruce Technologies (ph), and Zaintay (ph), and continuing to invest in our retail initiative which is gaining traction and showing improved financial performance despite the weak economy.  We feel very positive about the investments we have made during the last year, and we are optimistic that as the recovery improves, Apple will be poised to take advantage of them. 

 With that, I'd like to open the call to questions. 

 OPERATOR:  Thank you sir.  Our question and answer session will be conducted electronically.  If you would like to ask a question, please firmly press the star key followed by the digit one on your touch tone telephone.  We will come to you in the order that you signal, and if you find that your question has been asked and answered before you can ask it, and you would like to remove yourself from the question roster, please firmly press the pound key.  Again, if you would like to ask a question, press the star key followed by the digit one. 

 And for our first question, we go to Kimberly Alexi (ph) with Prudential Securities. 

 KIMBERLY ALEXI (ph), PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES:  Yes, thanks.  Fred, you had mentioned that there was some significant backlog.  Could you quantify that or give us a sense as to how strong the demand is, and really, what type of buyers are we seeing, both in terms of what you're seeing through the stores and just the other data that you're picking up on, if you can give us some sense as to how many of these may be Wintel converts, maybe you can give us a sense of that? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  We've made a habit of not disclosing our order backlog, but I will tell you it's currently very significant.  We have not seen any fall off in sales after the price increase, so we remain very optimistic about the strong momentum we have continuing on the new iMac.  As to the types of customers, while we haven't got a statistically significant survey done yet on the new iMac's, so I don't have any data to share with you other than anecdotally, we're finding that there are a lot of Wintel users that are buying the new iMac.  That is evidenced by, I don't know if you saw the recent article in Business Week and also comments from Amazon in terms of the sales that they've been making to a lot of Wintel users.  So, no question anecdotally we have a lot of evidence that there are significant buyers of the new iMac that are not currently Mac users. 

 KIMBERLY ALEXI (ph):  Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Kimberly.  Can we have the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR:  And for our next question we go to Dan Niles (ph) with Lehman Brothers. 

 DAN NILES (ph), LEHMAN BROTHERS:  Nice management during the quarter, Fred. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Thank you. 

 DAN NILES (ph):  Looking forward in regards to that, you made some comments on the ASP increases that you wouldn't get the full impact of it because of the current backlog.  If I'm trying to think through that going into the September quarter when you get the full impact of that, does that somewhat get offset by a percentage of education during the September quarter?  And then you made some comments on gross margins better in September quarter and you're talking about for the total company or were you just talking for the iMac products themselves? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Sure.  First of all, let me address the mix issue. Typically, both the June and September quarters are very strong for education.  In fact, I would say they're equal and last year the June quarter was even a little stronger than the September quarter.  The biggest K-12 quarter where Apple has its strongest position in education, the June quarter's the biggest.  So no, I don't think that the mix would be more the iMac because of education in the September quarter versus the June quarter. 

 As it relates to gross margin on the new iMac, I really believe it's going to move back up in the September quarter to a more normal level, in other words, a very acceptable, satisfactory level of gross margin, due to not only a full quarter benefit of the new price increase of a $100 per skew, but secondly the ops group is working on a number of cost reduction initiatives on the new iMac which should be fully realized in the September quarter.  And then, lastly, I would see far less air freighting in the September quarter.  You know, we're planning on well over half of the units going out to be air freighted in the June quarter, and there's a substantial unit dollar difference between putting it on the water versus air freight. 

 DAN NILES (ph):  Great, thanks a lot Fred. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  So overall, I think our gross margins should be higher in the September quarter, substantially higher than in the June quarter. 

 DAN NILES (ph):  Great, thanks a lot. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Dan. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And for our next question we go to Daniel Kunzler (ph) with JP Morgan. 

 DANIEL KUNZLER (ph), JP MORGAN:  Thanks.  Good afternoon.  A couple of things.  I didn't quite grasp, Fred, what you had to say about what was contributing to the relatively robustness of the Pro products, particularly given the age of the microprocessor that's in there.  If you could reiterate that, I'd appreciate it.  And then also go back to Steve's comments of I think it was March 21 in Tokyo, and you know, he said 125,000 you know, iMacs and that the shipment rates increased to 5,000 a day, or the production volumes had increased to 5,000 a day, and then to add that up, you still did better than that, was that a, you know, were there further increases to the production rates and were those rates sustainable given the available supply of flat panels? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yes, it went up substantially, you know, in the last ten days, you know, there were another 90 to 90 five thousand units that were produced and shipped.  So the answer is yes, it went up, you know, closer to the nine to ten thousand a day level.  'We don't have a capacity level in terms, constraint in terms of unit production per day that is a real constraint. The constraint is in availability of components that might be in short supply, and so what you saw was that we had all the components that we needed coming in, in the last ten days of the quarter, and therefore we were able to ramp up production substantially. 

 DANIEL KUNZLER (ph):  Is that, the question is this level of production do you think sustainable given what you've got or what you think you have in terms of what you think you have in terms of component supplies in the next 90 days? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  You mean ten thousand, nine or ten thousand a day? No. 

 DANIEL KUNZLER (ph):  Well, maybe not nine or ten thousand a day, but something north of five? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  No, I -- no, I wouldn't say.  I mean if you're looking at a 90 day production quarter, I wouldn't say that it would be north of five, no. 

 DANIEL KUNZLER (ph):  So, in other words, there's a, I'm not trying to put words in your mouth or portray this as a probability, but essentially the component constraints are not really gone.  Is that a, is that a fair statement? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Well, that all depends on demand, as I said, in my preamble, we expect to be able to catch up with demand this quarter. 

 DANIEL KUNZLER (ph):  OK, that's fair enough.  And on the Pro product side, I'm sorry, I have to ask you for a clarification. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Oh, yeah, that's OK.  So on the Pro side, we've added 75 more VAR's during the quarter, which doubled the size of our ProVideo sales channel, and we had a very good quarter in the whole video segment, you know, selling Final Cut Pro and DVD StudioPro, and so we're doing very well in that segment, and I'd say that's been our primary strength.  In the traditional creative market segments of advertising and publishing, we've seen continued delays of purchases there because of the weak economy, and last quarter they still didn't have Photoshop right or Quark Express, but Photoshop began shipping yesterday, so that's a positive.  So, I would say that the Pro business was pretty flat quarter to quarter, and it was, the strength was really in the video segment. 

 DANIEL KUNZLER (ph):  Yeah, one last little thing, Fred.  Are you seeing any benefit to the Pro line from the Apple stores specifically, which incidentally are great. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  They, you know, I'd say that they're getting Pro customers as well as consumers. 

 DANIEL KUNZLER (ph):  OK.  Thank you very much. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  But I'd say the real strength is coming from this VAR network and the market acceptance of Final Cut Pro, which has been very strong. 

 DANIEL KUNZLER (ph):  OK.  Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Daniel.  Can we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And next we go to Richard Gardner with Salomon Smith Barney. 

 RICHARD GARDNER (ph), SALOMON SMITH BARNEY:  Thanks, Fred.  A couple of questions.  First, going back to the component issue, you might have already said this, but if you could repeat it, if you look at the basket of components, we've obviously seen a couple of components roll over here recently.  Has that helped at all with the recent rises in prices that you've seen, is the basket still going up, and what do you think the outlook is for Q2?  And could you just tell us specifically which components you're having a tough time getting, aside from flat panel displays? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yeah, I think the key thing about why we're being very cautious about this quarter is that we saw a dramatic increase from January to March, right, in most components, particularly DRAM, which tripled and flat panels, which went up 25 percent. 

 Now it's true that flat panels have kind of stabilized, and so if you look at what our view is going forward, I'd characterize it as follows: We think that memory and pricing peaked in Q2 at a level that was greater than three times, as I said, than the low level in Q1.  We believe that most system providers increased memory content in response to the lower prices of Q1, which kind of pushed demand above output levels in Q2. 

 And so as we look to the third quarter, we have seen moderate decreases in memory pricing in April, and expect flat to decreasing pricing throughout the quarter in terms of DRAM.  For LCD's, continued growth in LCD monitor demand drove, as I said, Q2 prices to levels that were 25 percent above Q1, and we expect the market to remain tight throughout Q3 with prices up very slightly. 

 RICHARD GARDNER (ph):  Just a couple of follow-ups.  So when exactly do we get beyond the impact of your having to take of the previously promised pricing, the iMac, and also can you give us an update on your efforts to broaden your retail channel?  Thanks. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Sure, I would say probably May is when we get past that.  And, the second question? 

 RICHARD GARDNER (ph):  Yeah, related to third party retail partners. Obviously, Circuit City no longer is selling your product and are you aggressively looking for additional third party retailers with stores within a store, and Apple badge sales reps? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Well, as it relates to the expansion of CompUSA as I mentioned, we just added 60 more stores, so we're up to now about 150 stores out of their 200 plus.  So I'd say the main focus has been on expanding with CompUSA, which has been a very successful program where we've seen substantially higher sales productivity with our own Apple badged employees.  We also are piloting some programs in Europe.  We piloted one in the U.K. with Dicksons (ph), and so we're looking to also replicate potentially the CompUSA success in the U.S. in Europe. 

 RICHARD GARDNER (ph):  Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Rich.  Can we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And next we go to Andrew Neff (ph) with Bear Stearns. 

 ANDREW NEFF (ph), BEAR STEARNS:  Sure, two questions.  Two quick questions if I could.  One, just to clarify, you said the tax rate is going to be 28 percent for the balance of this year? I wanted to clarify that. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yes, that's correct. 

 ANDREW NEFF (ph):  OK.  And second ... 

 FRED ANDERSON:  That's our current forecast. 

 ANDREW NEFF (ph):  OK, current forecast.  And, I guess the second issue is that in terms of gross margin impacted in the next quarter, is there any way to, is a point or so sort of reasonable, or could it be more than a point?  Any way to characterize it? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  No, I think, you know, we've been conservative here, and I think 100 basis points is the down side risk. 

 ANDREW NEFF (ph):  OK, and could that be to bounce back in September or something like that? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Oh, I think it will bounce back above that, above the March level in the September quarter. 

 ANDREW NEFF (ph):  OK.  Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Andy.  Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And we go next to David Bailey (ph) with Gerard Klauer Mattison. 

 DAVID BAILEY (ph), GERARD KLAUER MATTISON:  Thank you very much.  A quick question about education.  Could you give us a little more detail about the early indications of demand and also a little more detail on what you're doing to try to counteract that? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  You know, it's too early to tell.  This is a strong K12 quarter and we're only, you know, 2 weeks into it, but we're optimistic that we're going to have a normal strong seasonal quarter here.  We've been doing extremely well on the one on one deployment and what I mean by that is one mobile computer for every student, right, and for every teacher.  And every knows, I think, that we've got an over 20,000 unit order with Enrico (ph) in the State of Virginia that, you know, the roll out's gone extremely well.  We're beginning to roll out Maine, which was over thirty thousand units, and we have other in the pipeline, what I'll call one on one initiatives, so the pipeline of those deals is strong in terms of the possibilities.  So I think that the major problem that we've encountered has been the reduced tax revenue base for the schools that's caused some of the big deals to defer out into future quarters from the first and second quarters as a result of funding constraints. 

 DAVID BAILEY (ph):  OK.  Great.  And can you give us any indication of number of Mac OS 10 licenses shipped? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Peter, you want to answer that? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER, VICE PRESIDENT OF FINANCE, APPLE COMPUTER:  Sure. We're not talking specifically about discrete finished goods box sales, but we have shipped over 3 million systems with Mac OS 10 loaded since May. 

 DAVID BAILEY (ph):  OK.  Thank you very much. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, David.  Could we have the next question please? 

 OPERATOR:  And we go next to Charles Wolf (ph) with Veedam (ph). 

 CHARLES WOLF (ph), VEEDAM:  Yes, I have some questions about the stores, Fred.  What was the breakdown between Mac and non-Mac customers in terms of purchases during the quarter? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  We don't have a recent survey that I can point to, but it is continuing to run, it's our belief, close to 40 percent non-Mac users. 

 CHARLES WOLF (ph):  OK.  And the second question is what was the ASP of Mac's sold in the stores? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I don't have a number.  Do you, Peter, on that? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  Not specifically, but clearly it's running higher than many parts of the count. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Because of beyond the box, and the mixing up of the higher end scale? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  Right. 

 CHARLES WOLF (ph):  And are you continuing to attract a number of, or a substantial percentage of non-Mac customers to the store? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yeah, we believe that, again, our CPU unit sales is continuing to run close to 40 percent non-Mac users. 

 CHARLES WOLF (ph):  But I'm speaking of visitors now. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Oh, the visitors, yeah, I don't, do you remember any recent data on that, Peter? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  Traffic remained very strong in the quarter we had, with 1.7 million visitors to our stores, which was up substantially from the prior quarter. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I think he's asking what the mix of visitors were, Mac versus non-Mac.  I don't know. 

 Sorry, Charlie, we don't have a current stat on that for you, but obviously if the CPU's.  My belief is that the close rate is higher on a Mac customer than it would be a Wintel customer because they obviously take typically several visits before you can close them, so my view would be that it's substantially higher than the CPU rate of 40 percent. 

 CHARLES WOLF (ph):  OK.  Let me give you a softball question.  You know, Steve announced the digital strategy and year and a half or a year and three months ago at MacWorld, and I was wondering if you guys have any kind of survey data that would indicate the percentage of Mac users that are using iMovies, or iToons, or iDVD, you know, the digital software? 

 FRED ANDERSON (?):  No, we don't, but you know, we gave out recently some data on the number of super drives and I think we've had downloads of iPhoto which was, what, one and quarter million since it's been introduced, and what was it, a half million Super drives? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  I think that's right, yeah. 

 CHARLES WOLF (ph):  OK.  Thanks a lot. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  All the indications, Charlie, are that its really building, you know.  That strategy has worked, beginning to work and I think its paying off, but I can't give you specific data as to your specific questions. 

 CHARLES WOLF (ph):  OK.  Thanks a lot. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks Charlie.  Can we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And we go next to Don Young  (ph) with UBS Warburg. 

 DON YOUNG (ph), UBS WARBURG:  Thank you, good evening.  Not to beat this thing to death, but just to understand the component prices better, Fred, I wonder if you could give us an idea of how far out you have committed prices.  In other words, if LCD screens or DRAM should fall precipitously in, you know, in the stock markets in May, when would that show up in Apple? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Very soon. 

 DON YOUNG (ph):  Very soon.  So in other words you are moving with the market. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yes. 

 DON YOUNG (ph):  OK.  The other question I wanted to ask you is looking at the gross margins, you've given a lot of specific guidance for the next quarter, but the current quarter is 300 basis points below what you did for the prior six months roughly, and I'm trying to get and idea of where you think the target, the model's for Apple once she gets through this unusual pricing and component period.  What's a target model for your gross margin should be on the kind of mix you're running today? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I'd like to see at least 28 percent. 

 DON YOUNG (ph):  But not back to 30? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I, we would like to have a better balance of significant top line growth and maintaining gross margins at 28 percent or slightly better.  In other words, I'd rather see the company growing at 15 to 20 percent on the top line than having 30 to 31 percent gross margin. 

 DON YOUNG (ph):  OK.  And if I could get one other question on the stores.  I assume that the stores performance was pretty back end loaded like the rest of the company.  Were you able to break into the black on a profitability basis in the month of March? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I would say that the stores were less back end loaded a little bit than our overall results for the company.  But what I would tell you is, again, we were really pleased with the growth in revenues from 48 million to 70 million and cutting the loss in half from 8 to 4 million, and as I said,  I think that, you know, we're trying to drive to profitability as soon as we can and I'm certainly hopeful that before the end of the calendar year that we can have a profitable quarter for our retail business. 

 DON YOUNG (ph):  Great.  Thank you, Fred. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks Don.  Can we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And next we go to Brett Miller (ph) with A G Edward. 

 BRETT MILLER (ph), A G EDWARD:  Hi Fred, Nancy.  I was wondering, you mentioned backlog should be out of the way in May.  Would that be early or late May? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Oh wow, I don't, I can't, the question is as it relates to the prices that were, the old prices prior to our price increase in late March. 

 BRETT MILLER (ph):  Right. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I would say early, early May. 

 BRETT MILLER (ph):  OK.  And the stores themselves, we saw kind of a slow down in the store openings, and I was kind of wondering if there was any, I guess, linearity or, I guess, guidance, in opening new stores ... 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yes, it was intentional that we decided to take a breather after our first 27 and evaluate the business model and, you know, what tweaks, if any, were appropriate.  And then, you know, crank up a plan for this calendar year.  And as soon as we did that, you know, we had the committed real estate and everything, we gave you the updated target of going from 29 now to another 20 stores, which would put us at 49 now, or very close to 50. 

 BRETT MILLER (ph):  Sure.  So coming back around to what you all learned, I know one thing that you talked about was that closed rates were a little lower than what you liked at the stores.  Were there any other things that you learned and other metrics and things that you're changing in the stores. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I really don't want to go in to that at this time. I'm sure that our retail business will have some updates.  Let me just say that we're incredibly pleased with the stores, let me say what we confirmed is that it was absolutely the right decision to put our stores in upscale malls and lifestyle centers where you have high traffic. 

 It was absolutely the right decision to carry inventory so the customers could walk out the door with a Macintosh, absolutely the right decision to focus on service as opposed to high-powered sales tactics, cause the people, 99 percent of the visitors to our stores would recommend it to their friends.  We also wanted people who are very knowledgeable of our products, and the advantages of our, you know, digital lifestyle applications and so forth, and we could demonstrate those.  That was absolutely the right decision that we should have solution centers. 

 So I could go on.  We confirmed a lot of things, and everything isn't significant, but, you know, we've concluded that there are a few tweaks we should make, and you'll see that incorporated in, you know, stores that we open in the second half of the calendar year. 

 BRETT MILLER (ph):  Thank you.  Great execution. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Thanks. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Brett. Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And we go next to Walter Winipski (ph) with First Holding. 

 WALTER WINIPSKI (ph), FIRST HOLDING:  Yes, hi, Fred, I jumped on a little bit late, so, let me just ask you if you can kind of go through the guidance for the current quarter, the issue being, is it a issue of getting enough components or is it a demand issue, being conservative, maybe put a little color on that for me, please? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Well, let me first say that we were up unlike many companies in this industry, year over year and sequentially, both in units and revenue, and sequentially normally only the March quarter is a down quarter for the PC industry.  So we, because of the strength of the new iMac, I believe predominantly, we were able to run counter and actually show growth, sequentially and year over year.  As it relates to this quarter, we're talking about further growth sequentially by another hundred million to 1.6 billion, and that would also be up 125 million over the June quarter of last year when we did, I think a billion 475. So I think in this economic environment, those not only are good results looking back for the last quarter, but good growth expectations for the coming quarter. 

 As to earnings, you know, being flat to up slightly.  I think we're being a little conservative because of uncertainties still surrounding future component costs and I don't want to be wrong, and so I think the flat part is being ultra-conservative. 

 WALTER WINIPSKI (ph):  So it's not an issue of there's limitations on either manufacturing or getting enough components should demand be a little better than you're expecting? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  No, I had said, and you missed it, that we expected to be able to get caught up on demand with the new iMac this quarter. 

 WALTER WINIPSKI (ph):  OK.  Great.  Thanks, Fred. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  You're welcome. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Walter.  Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And we go next to Steven Fortuna with Merrill Lynch. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA, MERRILL LYNCH:  Hey Fred, couple things, couple short things.  First off, from an iBook standpoint and an iPod standpoint, was the unit performance roughly in line with your expectations? That's the first question.  Second, in terms of (inaudible), where should we be thinking about (inaudible) dollars for the June quarter, flattish or perhaps up a little bit?  And also, is there any opportunity to further cut costs even if it's modest?  And lastly would just be on any noteworthy commentaries regarding the various geographies in which you play? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Sure.  As to the iPod, I would say that we expected a decline from, you know, 125,000 level we had in the December quarter, consistent with the normal seasonal pattern here.  In fact, the information we have is that there was actually about a 71 percent decline of MP3 player sales between the December quarter of 2000 and the March quarter of 2001, and we had a decline of about, a little over 50 percent, so I think actually we had less of a decline than the marketplace, and we're very pleased with the iPod, have strong expectations for it going forward. 

 Peter, you want to take the other question? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  Sure.  I'll start with your iBook question.  We were very pleased with our results for iBook.  We were up 156 percent year over year, doing well both in the channel and particularly in education.  We have a great product line up there that's being met well in all customer segments. 

 Regarding (inaudible), we saw benefits from our restructuring programs last quarter that we put in place this quarter.  We've continued to manage the inventory area very, very tightly, looking to save money where we can, but we continue to aggress, invest aggressively in R&D, hardware, software, and applications, and continue to invest in our retail programs. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA:  So where do you think (inaudible) might go in June? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  June we should be roughly flat with ... 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Flat. 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  ...with the March quarter. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA:  OK.  Great.  How about anything from a geographical standpoint? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  Pleased with all of our geographies, did really well internationally last quarter, particularly in Europe and saw a nice rebound in Asia Pacific, really on the strength of the new iMac around the world. 

 STEVEN FORTUNA:  Terrific.  Thanks very much. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thank you, Steve. Could we have the next question please? 

 OPERATOR:  And for our next question we go to Carl Frederick of Frederick Research. 

 CARL FREDERICK, FREDERICK RESEARCH:  Hi. Congratulations, Fred. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Thank you. 

 CARL FREDERICK:  Thanks.  I find my new 14 inch iBook here to be really terrific and I was wondering whether that was running a substantially greater gain than the smaller iBook? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  It did quite well, didn't it Peter ... 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  Yeah. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  ... in the quarter? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  Yeah. 

 CARL FREDERICK:  You -- I know my got air freighted from Colweers (ph).  You planning to do iBooks by air or are you planning to put them on the ocean as well? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  We deliver most of our portables, the iBook and the PowerBook, by air. 

 CARL FREDERICK:  So they're not looking -- you're not looking to move that to the ocean? 

 PETER OPPENHEIMER:  No. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  No, I think when you have something that doesn't weigh a lot, you know, and take up a lot of space, it tends to not be as big a delta between putting it on the water and air as a desktop. 

 CARL FREDERICK:  Well, that's what I figured, that's why I thought I'd ask.  I just wondered because it seemed like such a really terrific product.  I'm sitting here saying I can't imagine why you weren't further behind on backlog. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yes, we have that air freighting going for us. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks very much, Carl.  Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And for our next question we go to Rebecca Runkle (ph) with Morgan Stanley. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph), MORGAN STANLEY:  Good afternoon, thanks, Fred. Just a couple of questions.  First off, could you provide a little bit more color in terms of what you were saying on the government, you mentioned that briefly, and I'd like some clarity? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yeah, you know it's a small segment right now for Apple but it's really growing.  Last year, in fact, it grew 60 percent year over year.  And what we see is that there are a lot more government opportunities coming our way as a result of our new OS platform, Mac OS 10 and its increased stability and robustness and security, which is very important to the government.  And so, we're seeing a good pipeline of opportunities and think that's going to be a high growth in terms of percentage growth in opportunity for us going forward. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  Do you think you can do something similar this year in terms of year over year growth? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I don't want to commit to it, but I wouldn't be surprised.  I think it's going to be very strong double digit.  Like I said, I get involved with our customer briefing center and we have several government entities coming in for customer briefing center visits and a lot of interest in our new platform. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  Great, then two quick clarification questions. First, I think you said that you expect about half the air freight in June ... 

 FRED ANDERSON:  What I said is that we would have over half still being air freighted based on our current plan in the June quarter. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  And I guess it's your perspective, what would you consider more of a normalized trend or how should we be, and or how should we be thinking about September as that gets back to normalized levels? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yeah, what I would say is that there, you know, think that its somewhere between half and three quarter air freighted this quarter and maybe 25 percent or so in the September quarter, and there's something like a $35 delta between the two. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  All right, and then last ... 

 FRED ANDERSON:  So it is significant. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  Huge.  More normalized, you know, more normalized, would that be about a quarter in this type of you know, I guess ... 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I'm sorry, say that again. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  Yeah, let me just think about how I want to say this.  In the more normalized quarter ... 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yeah. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  ... your typical quarter, I would assume there still may be some air freight, it's not zero ... 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yeah, I don't think ... 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  ...So just in terms of putting that fully into perspective? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yeah,  I don't think the normalized level would be any more than 25 percent. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  OK.  And then lastly, you mentioned that you are anticipating, or at least thinking about flat panel potentially increasing slightly in the next quarter.  Could you just put some parameters around that in terms of what types of increases would be significantly beyond what you're currently modeling? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  I think what I said was that we saw a significant increase from the beginning of the March quarter to the end, which represented about 25 percent, and that we saw only a slight increase possibility this quarter in flat panel.  And I would characterize slight as being not more than $10 a unit ... 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  Great. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  On a 15 inch flat panel display. 

 REBECCA RUNKLE (ph):  OK.  15 inch, great.  Thank you so much. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Rebecca.  Could we have the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR:  And we go next to Richard Chu with SG Cowen. 

 RICHARD CHU, SG COWEN:  Thank you.  I have a couple clarifications. One, at some point, did you mention, Fred, that you thought 5,000 per day was a reasonable normalized run rate for the new iMac's this quarter? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  No, I didn't exactly say that.  I think it was in the context of Daniel Kunzler (ph) asking me a question about, you know, related to our ramping up to where we were able to do nine or ten thousand a day in the last ten days of the quarter, and then he was then asking about whether we had the component supply levels to support that on a sustained basis and I said no.  And then I said it would be something less than 5,000 a day. If you take 90 days in a quarter, even at 5,000, it would be 450, we can't support that from a supply standpoint.  So it would be something less than 5,000 without giving you and exact number. 

 RICHARD CHU:  OK. 

 FRED ANDERSON:  That's what I think I told him. 

 RICHARD CHU:  OK.  That's fine.  Could you talk about price increases relative to the component costs?  What are you doing outside of the specific $100 increases that you have disclosed on the LCD iMax in other product categories, whether notebooks, other desktops, Power line, et cetera.  Are you absorbing component increases or are you, are there any actions that are designed to mitigate that risk? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  Yeah, so, I think, basically, we haven't at this time raised any of our other products, but I think what you're asking me on the cost reduction initiatives, as I said earlier, we had several projects under way in the non-commodity area, such as consolidating some of our existing supplier base, sourcing certain components in to lower cost countries, and then the third major category would be tweaking the manufacturing process of certain subassemblies.  These kinds of initiatives we expect to enable us to make some significant cost reductions on the new iMac. 

 RICHARD CHU:  Can we infer from that, what I'm trying to get a sense of on your varying explanations for gross margins in the past quarter, was the absorption of (inaudible) in non-new iMacs at least as significant as the mix of LCD iMacs? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  No.  I think you're asking what the primary cost increase vectors were.  It was tripling, remember, unlike most companies, it's only the old traditional iMac that we have that's CRT based today.  Everything else at Apple sells, you know, including all of our display line is flat panel, so I think we're more, you know, flat panel display versus CRT than our competitors.  And therefore, that's a positive, but when component costs go up, then we feel it more.  I think the second factor is the DRAM prices went up, you know, they tripled at the beginning of this calendar year.  You know, from January or December through to March, although we've seen that stabilize and begin to come down a little now. 

 RICHARD CHU:  And if I can just, one final thing.  What are your expectations with regard to the CRT iMac's? 

 FRED ANDERSON:  It's a great product.  I think we did 152,000 units of the CRT-based iMac last quarter and, you know, we need a product both for the consumer market and education, particularly in that sub $1,000 space, so, you know, long live the original iMac.  But we don't get into, you know, future product discussions. 

 RICHARD CHU:  OK.  Thank you. 

 NANCY PAXTON:  Thanks, Richard, and thanks to everyone today for joining us.  A recording of today's call will be available briefly for seven days beginning at 5:30 PM Pacific time today.  And the number for the re-play is 719-457-0820 and the conference information code is 695190.  Members of the press can contact Lynn Fox with additional questions.  Lynn is at 408-974-6209.  Financial analysts can contact either John Hoover or me with additional questions.  John is at 408-974-4570 and I'm at 408-974-5420.  Thanks again to everyone for joining us today. 

 OPERATOR:  Ladies and gentleman, this does conclude our conference call for today.  You may disconnect at this time. 

 COPYRIGHT 2002 BY FDCH-eMedia, Inc. NO PORTION OF THIS TRANSCRIPTION MAY BE COPIED, SOLD OR RETRANSMITTED WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN AUTHORITY OF FDCH-eMedia, Inc. 

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020720dy4h0000r
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q1  2002 Apple Computer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
4,024 words
   PD
16 January 2002
   ET
10:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Fred .Anderson, Apple Computers, Chief Financial Officer   . Peter Obenheimer (Phonetic), Apple Computers, Vice President &     Corporate Controller   . Gary Whippler (Phonetic), Apple Computers, Vice President &     Corporate Treasurer 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Apple generated revenues of $1.3 billion.  A restructuring charge to operations of $24 million during the quarter. Equity investment gains were $23 million. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. OPENING COMMENTS   1. In fiscal Q1, Apple shipped 746,000 CPU units and generated      revenues of $1.3 billion in what continued to be a challenging      business environment.   2. Revenues were slightly below expectations due to a shortfall in      sales of the iMac due to the product mature reform factor, and      widespread speculation about a new iMac announcement in January.   3. Also impacted by some educational institutions delaying      purchases due to concerns about the overall impact of the weaker      economy on available funding.   4. Apple continues to do very well in one-to-one deployment      initiatives in education and recently signed a contract with the      State of Maine to deliver 36,000 iBooks to every 7th and 8th      grader over the next year and half.   5. During the quarter, Apple continued the discipline of      maintaining lean channel inventories and ended the quarter with about 4 weeks of channel inventory.   6. Portables accounted for 40% of Apple's CPU system sales.      PowerBook sales rebounded in the December quarter to 116,000      units.   7. The iBook continued to do well in both the education and      consumer markets.   8. Apple sold over 600,000 iBooks since the introduction of the new      form factor last May, compared to about 700,000 units of the      previous iBook form factor sold over its entire 20-month life      cycle.   9. The iBook momentum is expected to continue.   10. Last week, lowered the price of the entry level by $100 to      $1199, brought down the price for the popular Combo drive by      $200 to $1499. Apple introduced a new 14-inch iBook at $1799.   11. Introduced a new lineup of flat-panel iMac.   12. Initials orders for the iMac have exceeded the expectations.   13. The iMac SuperDrive model will begin to ship at the end of this      month. While the middle skewl will ship in February and      entry-price iMac will ship in March, it will take most of the quarter to ramp up manufacturing of the new iMac and is unlikely that we would be able to meet expected demand during the      quarter. 14. Additionally, continued to manufacture and sell the 2 entry iMac CRT models at sub-$1000 price point.   15. Power Mac sales also declined from the September quarter. Many      of the customers deferred purchases because of the weak economy. 

 B. MAC OS X   1. There was 40% increase in the number of Mac OS X native      applications in the December quarter, following the release of      Mac OS 10.1.   2. There are now over 2,500 applications running on Mac OS X      including Microsoft Office X.   3. Most of the important pro applications will be running on Mac OS      X. 

 C. IPOD   1. The iPod digital MP3 player was introduced in October. 2. Over 125,000 units were sold in just under 2 months. 

 D. APPLE RETAIL STORE   1. The Apple retail store initiatives continued to gain traction.   2. The company opened 27 stores before Christmas.   3. Earnings for the retail stores for December quarter totaled $48      million.   4. There was an average of 18 stores opened during the quarter,      which implies annualized revenue run rate of over $10 million      per store.   5. For the December quarter, the retail division incurred a loss of      approximately $8 million (Phonetic), which includes all retail      headquarter expenses.   6. In fact a survey of customers who purchased CPUs at Apple retail      store in December, approximately 40% did not own a Macintosh.   7. The stores continued to sell a greater mix of higher-end skills      (Phonetic) that are traditionally in direct channels.   8. A survey of the store visitors indicated that 99% would      recommend the store to a friend. 9. The company believes that the financial performance of the stores will improve significantly each quarter.   10. Overall gross margin was 30.7% in the December quarter, which      was up slightly from last quarter due to the continued benefit,      a relatively soft market for component, and a favorable gross      margin impact of the Apple retail store business. 

 E. FINANCIAL RESULTS   1. Operating expenses were up $18 million sequentially to $402      million due to increased holiday advertising and promotional      spending.   2. Apple recognized a restructuring charge to operations of $24      million during the quarter, primarily for targeted reductions in      its operations, information systems, and administrative      function.   3. The reduction involved a small number of staff.   4. Apple also recognized $23 million in equity investment gains.   5. The restructuring charge and investment gains had a net neutral      effect on EPS. 

 F. BALANCE SHEET   1. Cash during the quarter was $4.4 billion.   2. Cash conversion cycle was minus 43 days due to outstanding      quarter of collection and inventory management. 

 G. OUTLOOK   1. Expects revenues to be up sequentially in the March quarter to      about $1.5 billion (Phonetic).   2. Expected EPS to be approximately flat due to lower gross margin.   3. The aggressive pricing on the new iMac coupled with incremental      temporary production ramp cost should result in a significant      sequential decline in gross margin.   4. The company expects operating expenses to decline by $10-$15      million due to lower advertising and promotional expense.   5. The company projects that other income and expense will range      from $25-$27 million as the latest interest rate cuts flow through Apple's investment portfolio.   6. The tax rate is expected to be about 28%.   7. March quarter will be a quarter of product transition. 

 H. REASONS FOR BEING OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THE GROWTH PROSPECTS IN THE SECOND HALF OF THE YEAR   1. The company has a strong lineup of new products, including the      iMac and a robust pipeline of new products yet to come.   2. The Mac OS X transition is gaining momentum with over 2,500      applications now available.   3. The company's vision of the digital applications is beginning to      take hold like iPhoto, iTunes, iDVD, and iMovie that are      available only on Mac.   4. The entry into the MP3 market has been very successful.   5. With 27 retail stores open and more stores coming this year, the      company feels that it is very well poised to reach out to the      other 95% that are not Mac users. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  On the component outlook and the reasons for the gross margin pressure into the quarter, can you quantify the sequential decline  in gross margin ranking the component cost pressure? Do you think  science and education at this point is starting to buy into the end  of the March quarter? (Kimberly Alex (Phonetic) - Prudential  Securities) 

 A.  In terms of the expectation of significant decline in growth margin  percentage, I cannot give you a specific quantification between the  2 major categories. The one-time incremental costs are associated with air-freighting all of our new iMacs for the entire quarter, so that we can try to catch up with the big customer backlog that we  are accumulating. As we look through the next few quarters, we are  not going to have those costs, because we want to reduce the costs  rather than air freighting. As you go through production ramp up,  there are a number of inefficiencies until you get fully ramped. A  significant part of the drop that we are expecting in the gross  margin is due to the new iMac product transition. We are very  optimistic that we will continue to make progress in the education  market. We saw some big deals push out into this quarter. 

 Q2.  Can you talk a little bit about the economics of the retail stores?  You look at making that operation profitable. Is this because of the  corporate expense that is being under-absorbed in the division running that operation? Is it because of the cost of launching those stores, or is it because you needed to get more volume out of the individual stores? (Don Yang (Phonetic) - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  We believe that our financial performance will improve in future quarters. We had 8 stores open at the beginning of the quarter and  we opened 19 during the quarter. We had a huge amount of preopening  store costs that we had to absorb last quarter. A lot of work is  going on, to continue to strengthen the sales culture and service  culture of our organizations, and the stores out there. We think  that they can get better and begin to improve revenues per store.  Last quarter we had an aging iMac and we have a new iMac this  quarter. Our product offerings are going to be stronger this quarter  and for the remainder of the year than they were last quarter. The  economy was much worse last quarter. 

 Q3.  It sounds that it is (Indiscernible) of the driving volume up in the  stores as much as putting the one-time expenses and getting enough volume in the operations to go. Is that fair enough to say? 

 A.  To be able to generate slightly over $10 million from a store on an  annualized basis is a pretty good achievement. We are going ahead on  increasing the conversion rate. We are achieving all the objectives we had and based on the survey that was done in December. We are finally reaching out to 40% of CPU sales. 

 Q4.  Should we assume a similar gross margin ramp to the past product cycle, to get more efficiency on those products? Can you put more color on the international demand in this quarter? (Julian Montan (Phonetic) - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter) 

 A.  The gross margins on the new iMac during this March quarter of production ramp and introduction will be lower than on the old iMac. Clearly, our goal in future quarters is to strive towards getting  the new iMac gross margins up equivalent to the old. We have  aggressively priced the new iMac. We were pleased with our  international results. Mix did not change much YTY and the  performance was strong in Europe particularly. 

 Q5.  Could you give us any guidance on the number of stores you may open  in 2002? Could you give us some idea of the impact on sales on putting the Apple employees in the COMPUSA stores? (David Bailey - Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co) 

 A.  In terms of the new stores in 2002, we are not yet ready. We are going to open a number of new stores, but we are not at this time prepared to give you a target number. In the second consecutive quarter, we have been very pleased with the results of the COMPUSA initiative. We continue to see growing productivity in our stores especially with the beyond-the-box products that displayed Apple  care and software sales, and continued to look to expand that  program with other channel partners including Europe. 

 Q6.  Does it improve the gross margins of sales for the COMPUSA stores? 

 A.  Sure. 

 Q7.  You gave us your expectations for the quarter, but  trying to gauge  with possible variances it might run into, I was wondering how we  should think about the iMac ramp until quite late in the quarter. Is  there any risk we should be aware of - either simply delays or otherwise affects the aggregate revenues? Comment about the  education market and the budget defferals. I am curious as to why  you don't seem to think about risk in ramping up of iMac throughout  the budget year? (Daniel Kunstler - J.P. Morgan) 

 A.  Clearly, education could be a continuing factor during the year and  we have taken that into account in the guidance that we have given.  I think that even though we continue to strengthen our position in  education, it is possible that education results this year could be flat to down slightly because of the various factors you are  bringing up. In terms of the risk to the quarter, the primary risk  that you have raised is the ramp of the new iMac. There is always  risk associated with major ramp of a new product in terms of  potential flippage. I don't see the risk being component driven but  it was just potential issues encountered during the ramp. 

 Q8.  You talked about component prices in the past. Can you go through some of the major components and talk about the basket of component prices beyond the current quarter? (Andrew Neff - Bear Stearns &  Co.) 

 A.  Beginning in November, we saw an increase in both memory and flat panels. It is stabilized as of today and we believe that would hold through the quarter. The other commodities are flat to down as they typically are over those commodity lines. I don't think we want to give any guidance beyond this. 

 Q9.  What is the total revenue number for the stores? 

 A.  Total revenue was $48 million for the quarter. 

 Q10.  What percentage of the store revenues was other than CPUs? 

 A.  We decided not to disclose that, but we had an average of 18 stores  opened. We opened 19 out of our 27 stores during the quarter. The  average annualized store revenue was just over $10 million. 

 Q11.  How many visitors were new to the Mac platform and how many were current Mac owners? 

 A.  About 40% of CPU sold through the Apple store were non-iMac customers. 

 Q12.  What is the difference in the cost of air shipping versus sea shipping? 

 A.  About a several million dollars this quarter. It is significant. The  cost is factored in the guidance. 

 Q13.  Could you talk about the risks of iMac cannibalizing the professional lines? (Joe Moore - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  The power Mac is specially designed to meet the performance in expansion needs of our procustomers. The important things in terms  of how the power Mac is optimized compared to iMac is that there is  a faster system bus, we have level 3 Cache, faster graphics, gigabit Ethernet, and an option for duel processors. So I think our procustomers will need what the power Mac offers and it was designed to meet their needs. 

 Q14.  What percentage of the power Mac line is brought by consumers versus  professional users? (Richard Gardner - Salomon Smith Barney, Inc) 

 A.  I do not have any current data. It is certainly below 25% of our power Mac line business going to consumers. 

 Q15.  Could you give us a little more detail on how the stores that you  opened during the quarter and how they performed in the early stages  and how the performance was done? 

 A.  We are very pleased with the store openings last quarter. We have a  normal distribution. There are many individuals already putting in their orders at our Apple retail stores. The traffic has been very strong. The exciting new products offering here is going to drive sales up in the retail stores. 

 Q16.  We have heard from the suppliers that the flat panels were up 5-10%  sequentially in Q4. Do you see that as a significant risk to the margins in the iMac line? 

 A.  In the gross margin guidance for this quarter, we have factored in a  realistic increase in flat panels and also memory. We are very optimistic about the prospects for increased growth for Apple. We  feel good about the second half of the fiscal year for improved  performance, but we are not ready to get into specifics until next  quarter in terms of outlook. 

 Q17.  You told 40% of the CPUs sold at the store were to nonMac users. What percent of CPUs were sold to Wintel customers? (Manish Boel (Phonetic) - (Indiscernible)) 

 A.  We do not have breakout on that, but majority of those would have been Wintel customers. We think that the first-time buyer rate is slow. 

 Q18.  On the Mac 4 (Phonetic) grade cycle, looking at the past upgrade cycles, where do you think you are in terms of the upgrade cycle.  How many millions of customers have upgraded so far and what kind of upgrade do you expect in rest of 2002? 

 A.  We sold about a million copies of OS X since the introduction, including the beta. We shipped over 2 million systems to date. After the future upgrades, we do not really want to get into projecting that. 

 Q19.  What percentages of users have upgraded in the past cycles? 

 A.  It depends upon the significance of the OS upgrade release, probably  8-10% on medium releases, maybe 10-15% on a strong release. 

 Q20.  Relative to gross margins, once we are through the March quarter and  those one-time costs are worked through, should we be thinking about  steady state gross margins and returning on the June quarter? (Walter (Phonetic) - Indiscernible) 

 A.  Gross margin was 30.7%, it is a pretty lofty gross margin to sustain  long-term. We would trade some of the gross margins long-term for  top line growth. There can be some recovery as we get through the one-time cost associated with production ramp on the new iMac. I am not ready to give you quantification between this quarter and what  it was last quarter. 

 Q21.  Will the one-time cost be gone in the June quarter? 

 A.  Airfreight should dissipate substantially once you get caught up in  your supply lines.  My view is that definitely gross margins will improve on the iMac line as we go into the June quarter. 

 Q22.  On the cannibalization issue, you said the Power Mac sales were down. I am wondering if there is a better way to dissect that? 

 A.  Our Apple store revenues through our Internet store represented 43%  of our revenue YOY. There was 22% of revenue this quarter, which was  up from17% across all of last year and it also represented 28% of our gross margin in the quarter. 

 Q23.  You eluded that you expected the gross margins of the new iMac to  get to prior levels. Comments. (Richard Chu - SG Cowen) 

 A.  No. Clearly this quarter our new iMac gross margins will be significantly lower than our old iMac gross margins. We will strive very hard and achieve increases in the new  iMac gross margins. We  are going to price the new iMac very aggressively. So, the strategy  is to drive the top line with a new iMac and to accept slightly  lower gross margins even beyond this quarter. 

 Q24.  Comment on the possible mix with the old versus new iMac without specifying total units? 

 A.  The wild card here is the ramp and how many we are able to produce.  A significant part of our iMac sales this quarter will be the new  iMac. 

 Q25.  Comment on the mix of consumers? 

 A.  The Power Mac was specifically designed for our procustomers. The overwhelming majority of the buyers of the Power Mac are  procustomers. But the low-end entry level could decide the switch. A  lot of customers value the performance and capabilities of the Power  Mac, which the new iMac still does not have. 

 Q26.  On product transition we recorded, did you mean that in singular or  plural? 

 A.  I meant that in the plural. We have the new 14-inch iBook. The one to focus on is the new flat-panel iMac. 

 Q27.  How long will you be keeping the CRT iMacs in the line up? (Miller,  B. - A. G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.) 

 A.  It is in there today to cover the sub (Phonetic) $1000 price point market segment for both the consumer and education market. We recognize the need to continue to have an offering to address those customers. 

 Q28.  Is there any reaction on the education side to the new iMac product? 

 A.  Yes, they love it. There were favorable reactions from higher end K-12 (Phonetic). They love it because they can bring the whole  digital media capability into the teaching and learning environment.  The high-end super drive really is the one which is exciting for  higher education. The response has been good from education. 

 Q29.  You said the Power Mac volumes are moving to the lower end as people  are expecting a new product coming. How much of this is being held  up by photo shop? 

 A.  I really believe our probusiness with Power Mac has been negatively  impacted over the last few quarters because of the transition to Mac  OS X is 10 and not yet having all the key aspects the procustomer  wants to use. We expect the photo shop to be on the platform by  spring. We will do better. 

 Q30.  That is due to applications and not products? 

 A.  We have a strong pipeline for products. 

 Q31.  On the lineup of flat panel iMacs, once you have gone beyond all the  manufacturing ramp issues, how do you think the volume is going to be allocated between the low end, the mid end, and the high end?  What is going to be the largest volume? ((Indiscernible) - Merrill  Lynch) 

 A.  We are shipping the high-end $1799 flat-panel iMac, because it has got the super drive. It has got incredible capabilities for the  whole digital life style. The cost and the input we are receiving  from our customers is an indication that we are going to do  incredibly well. 

 Q32.  In terms of the actual bricks and mortar stores, do you have any kind of metric that measures the number of transactions as a  function of the number of the amount of store traffic to get some  percentage there? How does that compare to other retailers in  general? 

 A.  I think that it is a major opportunity. We have tracked our daily conversion rate. We have opportunities to improve our conversion  rate. We are in a high traffic location. It may take several visits  to convince Wintel users. I would expect our conversion rate to be  lower than a destination spot like COMPUSA. The retail team believes  that we can improve the conversion rate. 

 Q33.  Can you give us any sense of the operating margins that you would  achieve in a longer term? How does the channel inventories look right now by product line? How much inventory do you have in older iMacs in particular?? (Richard Gardner - Salomon Smith Barney) 

 A.  With regards to channel inventory, we do not have any problems. They  are all within a relevant range. In terms of the operating margin on  a long-term basis (meaning over the next 3 years), we certainly would like to drive back a high order In terms of channel inventory  we don't have a problem spot. In terms of operating margins, we  certainly would like to drive back the higher bid and get our  revenues back to the $8 billion level what we enjoyed in FY2000. If  we are able to do that, the operating margins are going to migrate  back up. There is a lot of leverage here. When you look at the SG&A,  we do not need to ramp up SG&A except for the retailing initiative.  As we increase the top line backup towards the $8 billion level and  hopefully beyond in the next 3 years, we are going to see a rebound  in gross margins, and the key to it is the top line. We are  continuing to invest in the foundation areas like hardware and  software, application software products and retail initiative, and  marketing to drive the top line growth. There are operating margin  expansion opportunities. We want to get back to $8 billion as soon  as we can over the next 3 years. 

 Q34.  Do you plan to leave the software port (Phonetic) to Windows, to the  third parties? (Charles Wolfe (Phonetic)  Needham Co.) 

 A.  It is Mac today and we have not ruled out the possibility in the future of moving the iPod to the Windows world. I cannot comment on whether we are going to do that or not. 

   CO
applc : Apple Inc
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy1g000tt
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) not hd=event and co=aapl
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
85
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 8:19 AM GMT
  
