 
•	 Q3 2016 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Pfizer Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Pfizer Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Pfizer Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Pfizer Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2008 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2007 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2007 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q1 2007 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2006 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2005 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2005 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2003 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q3 2002 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  PFE - Q1 2002 Pfizer Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q3  2016  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,667 words
   PD
1 November 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's third-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's third-quarter 2016 performance. As usual I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla, Group President of Pfizer Innovative Health; John Young, Group President of Pfizer Essential Health; and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel.

Slides that will be presented on the call can be viewed at our home page, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance, Third-Quarter 2016. And this is located in the For Investors section in the lower right hand corner of the page.

Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussion during the call will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional information regarding these factors is discussed under the disclosure notice section in the earnings press release we issued this morning, as well as in Pfizer's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, notably including Part 1, Item 1a, Risk Factors. And this is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at their website, as well as the Pfizer website. Forward-looking statements during this conference call speak only as of the original date of this call and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these statements.

Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K, dated today, November 1, 2016. You may also obtain a copy of the form 8-K at our website Pfizer.com/investors.

Also, any non-GAAP measures presented are not, and should not, be viewed as substitutes for financial measures required by US GAAP and have no standardized meaning prescribed by US GAAP and may not be comparable to the calculations of similar measures at other companies. We will now make prepared remarks and then we'll move to a question-and-answer session. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck, and thank you for joining our call this morning. During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter and provide some comments on the strength and depth of our pipeline.

Starting with the quarter, we reported another quarter of solid operational revenue growth, marking our eighth consecutive quarter of operational growth. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange and the legacy Hospira operations, Pfizer's standalone revenues grew by 3% operationally.

Looking at each of our businesses. Pfizer's Innovative Health achieved another quarter of strong revenue growth due to the performance of key brands including Eliquis globally, Xeljanz, Lyrica, Chantix, and Ibrance primarily in the US. We continue to be very pleased with the performance of Ibrance. Since our US launch in February 2015 it remains the market leader for treatment of first-line HR positive HER2 negative metastatic breast cancer. As expected, we are starting to see a tempering in new market share growth. However, our total scripts continue to grow and we are focused on reaching additional metastatic patients currently receiving chemotherapy or hormone replacement therapy. Sorry, hormone therapy alone.

We also anticipate the publication of our Phase 3 PALOMA-2 study will occur by year-end and expect that the ability of our dedicated breast cancer field force to then detail on the strength of this data. It should allow us to achieve greater penetration into the later-adopting physicians, many of whom are potentially high prescribers for Ibrance.

A key milestone to grow the Ibrance franchise will be to secure approval in the EU, where we have filed and received a positive opinion from the CHMP in September. We expect the decision from the Commission later this year.

Also of note, both Eliquis and Xeljanz continue to generate attractive growth on a quarter-over-quarter basis. And Chantix in the US is benefiting from the publication earlier this year of the EAGLES study. Prevnar 13, sequentially we saw an increase this quarter in adult indication as flu season approaches and overall, the Prevnar family continues to perform in line with our expectations.

Turning to Pfizer Essential Health business. It achieved operational revenue growth, primarily due to the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations, and to a lesser extent from the Essential Health standalone Sterile Injectables portfolio. Excluding legacy Hospira, we experienced a slight operational revenue decline on a year-to-date basis; however we remain confident that the Essential Health portfolio has the potential to pivot to achieve modest sustainable growth.

We expect this shift to be driven by a combination of anticipated growth across the portfolio, including Sterile Injectables, anti-infectives, biosimilars, and emerging markets. Collectively they may provide an offset to our peri-LOE and legacy products portfolio, which by their nature are robust contributors to cash flow generation, but given they are multi-source generally decline in developed markets. As part of the Essential Health growth strategy, we anticipate continuing to refine the portfolio with business development activities such as the pending acquisition of AstraZeneca's late stage small molecule anti-infectives business and our recent agreement to sell the Infusion Systems unit to ICU Medical.

All in all, the PIH and PEH business are performing well and have been further strengthened by approximately $40 billion of acquisitions we've done over the past year. This has enhanced our near-term growth potential by expanding our footprint in the highest-growth therapeutic areas including Biosimilars and Sterile Injectables with Hospira, Medical Dermatology with Anacor, Oncology with Medivation, as well as several smaller deals. These additions to our portfolio are bolstering near-term revenue-generation opportunities as our pipeline continues to mature and advance.

Turning to our pipeline, we remain confident that we have built a solid pipeline, targeting areas that have potentially meaningful clinical value for patients and will provide the largest return on investment for shareholders. Of particular note is our oncology pipeline. For Ibrance we have more than 60 research programs in breast and non-breast cancers, including squamous cell and neck cancer, metastatic pancreatic cancer and mantle cell lymphoma.

For Xtandi, the FDA approved the label update on October 20, to include important data from the first comparative trial that demonstrated safety and efficacy of Xtandi compared to bicalutamide. We believe these data will help physicians better understand the difference between Xtandi and bicalutamide for their patients living with metastatic CRPC, that's castration resistant prostate cancer. Similar to Ibrance, we hope to generate new data to drive increased utilization earlier in the treatment paradigm for prostate cancer.

For immuno-oncology we continue to execute our planned IO strategy of 10 programs in the clinic and 30 programs ongoing. Together with our partner Merck KGaA, we are on track to file avelumab for treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma by the end of this year in the US. And we just announced the European Medicines Agency validated for review our Market Authorization Application in the EU.

Over 3,000 patients have now been enrolled in ongoing avelumab studies. There are studies of avelumab as monotherapy and are completing recruitment in second-line non-small cell lung cancer and other smaller tumor types. However, we believe that doublets and triplets, that is the combination of avelumab and other IO drugs or chemotherapy are the areas of greatest potential for patients. And we are making targeted investments in support of developing clinical data to potentially advance these combinations.

We've initiated avelumab combination studies with chemotherapy and targeted therapies and expect to see updated data next year on Inlyta plus avelumab in first-line renal cell carcinoma. And rituximab plus 4-1BB in follicular lymphoma. We also anticipate data on avelumab plus 4-1BB next year.

In addition to avelumab, for the remainder of the year we have a study underway with other agents in our portfolio, including OX-40 as a single agent in combination with 4-1BB and avelumab in various tumor types. PTK7 ADC is showing encouraging activity in ovarian cancer in Phase 1B and combination studies with avelumab will commence in 2017.

Our IDO1 inhibitor is also in Phase 1 and we expect combination studies to start in 2017. Our clinical allogeneic CAR T-cell program with Cellectis and Servier is on track for recruitment in the UK ongoing.

In Inflammation and Immunology through our Anacor acquisition we have added Crisaborole to our pipeline for the treatment of mild-to-moderate dermatitis. It is currently under review by the FDA with a January 2017 PDUFA date. If approved, Crisaborole has the potential to be an important first-line treatment for the 18 million patients in the US who suffer from this significant unmet medical need. We are also exploring filing Crisaborole outside of the US.

We continue to see strong potential to expand the label for our anchor asset Xeljanz in diseases beyond RA, such as UC and psoriatic arthritis. We are excited about our next generation of selective JAK inhibitors currently in development. In CVMET in September we recorded positive Phase 3 data for ertugliflozin in partnership with Merck we're on track to submit New Drug Applications to the FDA for ertugliflozin and two fixed-dose combinations, ertugliflozin plus Januvia and ertugliflozin plus metformin by the end of 2016.

As you saw today, we announced the discontinuation of the clinical program for bococizumab. While these decisions are always difficult, we make these assessments in the best interests of our patients and our shareholders and in the context of the both the data defining the potential profile of the drug, as well as our view of the treatment and market landscape for the drug.

The discontinuation decision was made based on the totality of information available to us across two key areas. The first is the emerging clinical profile from our six completed Phase 3 lipid-lowering studies. Specifically, the longer-term efficacy data now in hand, including from two recently-completed 52-week studies in which top-line results were announced today, we had seen an unanticipated attenuation of LDL-cholesterol lowering over time. Additionally, we have observed an unanticipated higher level of immunogenicity and injection site reactions of bococizumab as compared to other agents in the class.

The second is the evolving treatment and market landscape for lipid-lowering agents in the PCSK9 class. In this market, the treatment's ability to impact CV outcomes is a significant value driver which requires long-term efficacy and durability of the cholesterol lowerer. And we have also recently seen payers establish access restrictions to the class which has meaningfully dampened our initial expectations for the market potential.

Taken together, the totality of the emerging clinical profile and the treatment and market landscape led us to the conclusion that bococizumab is no longer likely to provide value to patients or physicians or shareholders. And as a result, we determined the appropriate decision was to discontinue the development program.

In rare diseases, the acquisition of Bamboo Therapeutics complements our rare disease portfolio and enhances our leadership position in gene therapy. And with our partner, SPARK, we have seen data from the first seven patients being treated in our ongoing Phase 1/2 trial which is promising so far and has the potential to be a long-time therapy for the treatment of hemophilia B.

In vaccines we continue to advance the Staph aureus and Clostridium difficile programs which are both currently in Phase 2. We anticipate a C. difficile Phase 2 read out before the year-end. And assuming that it achieves its primary endpoint, we anticipate a potential Phase 3 start in the first half of 2007.

And in biosimilars we remain confident that we'll be well positioned in emerging biosimilars market with our broad pipeline. We recently announced that we would begin shipment of Inflectra to wholesalers in the US in late November. As you can see, we expect to have several key pipeline milestones between now and the end of 2017 across several therapeutic areas.

To summarize, for the remainder of this year we anticipate potential EU decision for Ibrance, avelumab filing in the US for Merkel cell carcinoma, ertugliflozen filing in the US and C. difficile proof of concept read out. In 2017, we anticipate potential US decision for avelumab Merkel cell carcinoma, potential lorlatinib submission in non-small cell lung cancer, potential EU decision for Xeljanz in RA, potential US filings in the first half of 2017 for label extension for Xeljanz in UC and psoriatic arthritis, and potential crisaborole decision in the US.

In addition, between now and the end of 2017, we expect up to 12 pivotal studies with top-line read outs. We have seven from oncology, including the first IO combination data read outs of avelumab, one from rare disease and four from biosimilars.

Over the past five years, we have worked to shape the quality of the assets in our pipeline. I believe we have a mix of competitive assets that are positioned to deliver new therapeutic breakthroughs to patients over the next few years.

Similarly, over the past three years, each of our businesses have gained a sharper focus, increased accountability and a greater ability to capture the opportunities within their unique markets. Today they have the independence and resources of standalone entities within Pfizer to effectively compete in their markets while having the benefit of the operational strength and financial flexibility associated with being part of Pfizer.

For example, we are now managing our Innovative Health business as five therapeutic-focused integrated businesses plus Consumer Health. We think of them as five small biotech companies, each concentrated on targeted areas of science and relevant patient groups. And having a clear focus on delivering value to patients and in turn to shareholders.

In conclusion, our business is performing well. We are taking steps to position Innovative Health and Essential Health for long-term success through competitive portfolios, pipeline investments in key growth areas that address the unmet needs of patients, and thirdly, the financial strength to continue to invest in the growth drivers that will enable both businesses to be key leaders in their markets. Now I'll turn it over to Frank who will go into greater detail and results for the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. As a reminder, because we completed the acquisition of Hospira on September 3, 2015, Pfizer's financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2016 include Hospira Global Operations while the comparable prior-year periods include only one month of legacy Hospira US and do not include financial results from legacy Hospira international operations.

In addition, Pfizer completed the acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals on June 24, 2016. Consequently, our financial results for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2016 include three months of legacy Anacor operations which were immaterial. Finally, Pfizer completed its acquisition of Medivation on September 28, 2016, so financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2016 reflect three business days of legacy Medivation operations which were also immaterial.

Now, moving on to the financials. Third-quarter revenues were approximately $13 billion and reflect year-over-year operational growth of $1.2 billion or 10%, which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $224 million or 2%. Legacy Hospira operations contributed $1.1 billion to Pfizer's third-quarter revenues in our Essential Health business. If you exclude foreign exchange and the contribution from legacy Hospira operations, Pfizer's standalone revenues grew operationally by $381 million or 3%.

Innovative Health operational revenue growth was 10%, driven by the strong performance of Ibrance in the US, Eliquis globally, and Xeljanz, Lyrica and Chantix, all primarily in the US, which were partially offset by the loss of Rebif alliance revenue versus the year-ago quarter, due to the expiration at year-end 2015 of the agreement to co-promote Rebif from the US, lower Enbrel revenues in most developed Europe markets due to biosimilar competition, and expected lower revenues from Prevnar 13 adult in the US, due to the high initial capture rate after its launch in the fourth quarter of 2014, resulting in a smaller catch-up opportunity versus the year-ago quarter.

Essential Health operational revenue growth was also 10% driven by the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations and to a lesser extent, from Pfizer standalone sterile injectables. Both of which were partially offset by the loss of exclusivity and the associated generic competition, primarily for Lyrica and Zyvox in most developed Europe markets.

Pfizer's standalone revenue in the Essential Health business, which excludes the contribution of legacy Hospira operations, declined 5% operationally as a result of the 7% operational increase in the standalone Sterile Injectables portfolio which was more than offset by a 15% operational decrease in the peri-LOE products portfolio and the 4% operational decline in the Essential Health standalone legacy Established Products portfolio. It's important to note that in emerging markets Pfizer's overall Essential Health revenues grew 9% operationally, due primarily to the in inclusion of legacy Hospira operations and Pfizer's standalone Sterile Injectables portfolio and standalone legacy Established Products portfolio.

Third quarter reported diluted EPS was $0.21 compared with $0.34 in the year-ago quarter due to a charge related to the pending sale of Hospira Infusion Systems, decreased operating expenses, product losses of exclusivity and foreign exchange impacts, including the Venezuelan bolivar. All of which were partially offset by revenue growth in certain new, in line and acquired products, and lower asset impairment charges, and lower acquisition-related costs.

Adjusted diluted EPS for the third quarter was $0.61 versus $0.60 in year-ago quarter. The increase was primarily due to increased revenues, lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted-average shares outstanding which declined by 105 million shares versus the year-ago quarter due to our share repurchase program. All of which were partially offset by an aggregate operational increase and adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted R&D expenses of approximately $1.1 billion, or 16%, which includes the addition of Hospira operations in 2016, a $0.04 negative impact due to foreign exchange and continuing product losses of exclusivity.

I want to point out that third-quarter adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased year over year from 17.4% to 22.7%, primarily due to foreign exchange and the addition of legacy Hospira operations. Also, because foreign exchange increased cost of sales while decreasing revenues at the same time, which is atypical, there was an exaggerated increase of our adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter.

If you'll exclude the foreign exchange impact, third-quarter adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue would have been 20.9%. Although we have experienced this for two consecutive quarters, we continue to view this as an anomaly rather than a trend, and we've narrowed our adjusted 2016 adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue guidance within its original range.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted third-quarter revenues by approximately $224 million, or 2%, of which approximately $175 million was attributable to Venezuela. While FX favorably impacted adjusted SI&A and R&D expenses, the previously mentioned significant negative impact on adjusted cost of sales drove the overall FX impact of $115 million, or 2% of our total adjusted cost. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted third-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.04 compared with the year-ago quarter but approximately $0.015 related to Venezuela.

As you can see on the chart, we've narrowed the ranges to certain components of 2016 financial guidance. We increased the low end of our revenue guidance range and we now expect 2016 revenues to be in the range of $52 billion to $53 billion. I want to point out that this range continues to absorb an anticipated $1.8 billion negative impact from product losses of exclusivity and an anticipated $1.4 billion negative impact from foreign exchange versus 2015, of which almost $850 million is attributable to Venezuela.

I also want to remind everyone that as we previously communicated, there are seven fewer selling days in the fourth quarter of 2016 versus the fourth quarter of 2015. This will impact only the quarterly year-over-year comparisons, given that there are essentially the same number of selling days in 2016 as there were in 2015.

Because of our decision to discontinue the global clinical development program for boco, we now expect adjusted R&D expenses to be in the range of $7.8 billion to $8.1 billion and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.38 to $2.43 which is still within our original range of $2.38 to $2.48. It important to note the mid point of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance range was negatively impacted solely to reflect this decision. Excluding this Boco decision, the midpoint of the range would have increased by $0.02.

Moving on to key take-aways. We achieved our eighth consecutive quarter of operational revenue growth. In the third quarter of 2016 growth was driven by the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations, new products that are early in their life cycles such as Ibrance, Eliquis, and Xeljanz, as well as the solid performance from Lyrica and Chantix. We narrowed the ranges for certain components of our 2016 financial guidance.

We announced and completed the acquisition of Medivation and accomplished several key product and pipeline milestones. And we returned $10.5 billion to shareholders through the first nine months of 2016 through dividends and share repurchases, including a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2016 and beyond. Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank and Ian. At this point, operator, can we please poll for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thought I'd start perhaps for John, a two-parter for John. First on biosimilar Remicade. How would you set expectations on the launch in light of rebates and aggressive contracting by J&J? And any legal risk that you see that remains for Pfizer? And separately on the SIP business, which was very strong in the quarter, were there any temporary factors there that helped that?

And then for Ian, following your decision to, for now, not split the Company up, can you speak to your comments in the release that you will now move forward with a focus on strategic priorities to grow and increase operational efficiency to be more competitive and what that means? Thanks.

JOHN YOUNG, GROUP PRESIDENT OF PFIZER ESSENTIAL HEALTH, PFIZER INC.: Okay, thanks for the question, Gregg. So let me take the launch of Inflectra, first of all. Obviously we're very excited, very positive about the opportunities that we have. And that's based on the positive uptake that we've seen in the markets where we've already launched Inflectra. In fact, where biosimilars have launched, we have already seen around about a 26% volume share of branded Remicade switched to biosimilars of infliximab.

And so we believe that actually the marketplace, on a global basis, is really beginning to become more comfortable with the introduction of biosimilars. So in the United States we obviously are very positive about the opportunities that represents. And we look forward, as we've already announced, to introducing Inflectra towards the end of this year.

In relation to sterile injectables, obviously as you know, we are very focused on the combination of the legacy Hospira Sterile Injectable portfolio, along with the branded legacy Pfizer portfolio. The strong performance that we've seen in the Sterile Injectable business this quarter really is a reflection of the combination of the strengths of both of those portfolios together, both legacy branded Pfizer portfolio as well as the legacy generic Hospira Sterile Injectable portfolio.

And I think we're seeing, at a customer level, the combination of that much broader offerings to the customers really provides us with the breadth of portfolio that our customers value and provides us with a strong operational offering to customers right across the world. So we're very positive about that opportunity and how the business is performing. Thanks for the question, Gregg.

IAN READ: Thank you, Greg. To your second question, my comment there really reflects that through this process, we've now established two very strong teams in both businesses. We've established metrics and comparatives. These teams are focused on producing strategies that indicate or ensure they're competitive within their comparison group and focused on generating returns that shareholders require. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question please, operator?

OPERATOR: David Maris, Wells Fargo.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning, Ian. Perhaps you could talk a little bit about pricing in the US specifically on Proposition 61. Most recent polling seems to show that if it were held today it would pass. The industry is fighting it. Can you describe what you think the impact would be on innovation and pricing, what the difference between what state agency pay versus VA pay for Pfizer drugs?

And then separately, we've spoken a little bit about this, but some have pointed to the supply chain, specifically PBMs, as being part of the problem in lack of transparency. Do you agree? And do you think if the US is willing to discuss price controls it should be willing to discuss PBM rebate controls? Thank you.

IAN READ: So let me take that. This is going to take a little bit longer given the extent of your questions on this. Let's just deal in general with the pricing situation and then we'll come back to the Prop 61.

So look, we obviously got pricing affordability an issue that is concerning to us and it's clearly been amplified in this election cycle. There is considerable uncertainty and turmoil about both candidates' positions on these issues. And it's difficult to decipher between campaign rhetoric and legitimate policy views. It's been disappointing that this debate on pricing has completely neglected the other side of the ledger, that is the benefits and value added by the pharmaceutical industry.

So while we understand healthcare costs have increased for many patients, we disagree with the prevailing notion among some politicians that pharmaceuticals are the reason for these rising costs. And we believe that post the election cycle, good public policy will prevail.

So currently in the US, you'll see it's a comparitor, we spent 17% of our GDP on healthcare. Yet we only spent 2% on drugs while 12% GDP is spent on inpatient and outpatient services. We compare that to the OECD countries who spend approximately 9% of GDP on healthcare. They spend 1.5% of GDP on drugs and only 5.5% of GDP on medical services.

But for half a point of GDP extra on drugs between OECD and United States, you get a vibrant research-based industry that is producing roughly $1.3 trillion of value to GDP. I think policy makers are well aware of the importance of maintaining an innovative pharmaceutical business.

Further, if you look at cost increases in the US from 2004 to 2014, hospital service costs have increased 75% while prescription drug costs have increased 35%. While faster than the CPI, they are lagging the overall medical costs of around 40% growth.

I think what's exacerbated the cost problem for patients is their insurance plans on average cover a much lower share, 83% actually, of prescription drug costs, compared to the cost of medical services where they cover 96%. So we're seeing insurance companies are making a choice of subsidizing health services more than drugs. You see this in their actions taken by increasing co-pays and shifting drugs into the overall deductible, which has pushed the issue with patients of affordability, but it's certainly not due to price increases because in 2016, the branded pharmaceutical industry took about a 2.8% on average net price increase.

I think the market is reacting to the fact that in the pharmaceutical business there are two markets. There's a market of branded, patent protected products which increased prices in 2015 to 8% and then a market of difficult-to-make generics or generics that have squeezed them where we've seen certain actors take what society believes is unreasonable price increases. So I think we can have better solutions if we look to how do we fix the policy issues and the regulatory issues that allow single suppliers, single source suppliers, and ease the pathway of those generics. Regardless of the election results, I'm not really concerned -- well, no matter the outcome of the Presidential race, we will continue to work with public officials.

That being said, let's talk to the rebate issue. Look, I think the rebates have served an important contribution to allowing negotiations on volume-related transactions. I think they are now becoming less helpful in getting cost-effective solutions to patients. And in reality, if we could find some way, and I think it would need a legislative fix, that we could find some way of ensuring that the pharmaceutical industry has an ability to moderate price according to volume solved for the cost to customers without rebates, I think that would be in the best interest of patients.

Now coming to the issue on Prop 61. If we voted today on the facts of the case, on the merits of the Proposition, it would be rejected by the California voters. We don't see any particular overall benefit in health care costs for California.

However, we are a highly politicized arena. It's difficult to say exactly what will happen on this Proposition. But once we know the results, the industry will then formulate its public policy and respond to it. I would like to say that what Prop 61 is asking for is basically untenable. It's asking for an industry that has given non-commercial prices to the veterans for a very good reason, they're a special part of our society. And we've given one commercial price to that part of society, you take that and extend it to the rest of government is not a workable economic model. So the Prop 61, between its floating and its implementation of six months, I would expect to see a lot of public policy discussions which we met on this implementation. Sorry for the length of that answer.

OPERATOR: Geoff Meacham, Barclays.

GEOFF MEACHAM, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Morning, guys, thanks for taking the question. Just had a couple on the bococizumab discontinuation. Obviously, this could have been a large commercial investment which now you'll save. Ian, can you put this into the context of Pfizer strategy in primary care? And what influence, if any, would this have on your appetite for bolt-on type of deals?

And then on the pipeline for Xtandi, now that you guys have TERRAIN formally in the label, how much of a tipping point do you think this could be for urologist adoption? I'm just thinking about the bigger M-zero population as you move upstream. Thanks, guys.

IAN READ: Thanks, Geoff. On the bococizumab, I don't initially have -- it doesn't have that dramatic implications. It's contribution to our EPS was modeled by most analysts as being moderate in the outer years. So per se, it's not an issue that creates a sudden need to change strategies. It certainly does indicate that we want to continue to make our decisions on portfolio based on what we believe will generate return. And we need to look at the substrate we had in cardiovascular to seeing how we strengthen our cardiovascular presence with more substrate. I'll pass it over to Albert to do the Xtandi.

ALBERT BOURLA, GROUP PRESIDENT OF PFIZER INNOVATIVE HEALTH, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Geoff, for the question. For Xtandi going forward, we believe there will be continued momentum in the oncology segment. But importantly, as you ask, we believe there is a large intact opportunity within the urology segment which we believe will be catalyzed by the terrain label update.

Based on facts in Q3, 26% of Xtandi units were prescribed by urologists, up from 20% historically. Right now, we have approximately 2,000 urologists prescribing the product. And the recent market research suggests that 80% of urologists are highly compelled to prescribe Xtandi after seeing the terrain data. So I think terrain data publication and increasing in the label will be an important catalyst for Xtandi.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. I have a couple questions. First, Ian, on your decision to discontinue your PCSK9, it sounds to me like the only thing that has really changed is the emerging profile of your specific drug. The evolving landscape hasn't evolved yet because we don't yet have clinical outcomes trials for which we are waiting. I'm wondering if you saw something with your outcomes trials that you can share with us and any additional details on LDL-lowering end events.

And then my second question is back to the pricing question. Clearly Pfizer, along with many of your peers, have taken multiple price increases during the year, Pfizer is no exception. How do you see your ability to take price going forward? How should we think about price competition -- or contribution from price going forward? And also if you could break out what was price versus volume this quarter. Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Okay, on the LDL, on bococizumab, we're making a decision based on the profile of our drug, not on the profiles of other drugs. And on our profile, what we saw was that earlier on we did see we had ADAs. But we had data earlier on at 12 weeks and 24 weeks and we saw no substantial impact on LDL lowering. In fact, we continue to see a robust LDL lowering.

It was only recently that we got the data on the majority of our LDL trials out at 52 weeks. And out at 52 weeks, we saw a substantial population reduction in LDL lowering. We correlated that with neutralizing antibodies. And then we have the site rejection in one of our other -- the injection site reaction on some of our trials. So when you look at the total profile of our drug, we don't believe it could be commercially successful or in the benefit of patients for us to continue to bring that to market.

And then on the pricing issue, we have always priced responsibly. We priced to the marketplace the value of our product. And on the affordability issue we always made provisions for patients who have no insurance or poor insurance, to get our product free or nearly free. So I don't believe that there's any reason for Pfizer to change its approach to the pricing of our products, as we sit here today. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I have three. On Prevnar 13, year-to-date the franchise is down modestly in part due to the Q3 government purchases. To hit the full-year guidance of comparable to slightly down, it implies Q4 will also be slightly down. Is that how to look at it? That does seem better than the cautionary commentary that the Company provided, particularly that in August.

Secondly, now that Pfizer has had a chance to see Novartis's CDK4/6 inhibitor data, how would you compare and contrast the profile to that of palbo? And then lastly, the CTLA-4 from OncoImmune is described in the press release as potentially differentiated. I'm wondering if you could elaborate on its potential differentiation. Thank you very much.

IAN READ: Thank you, Steve. I'll ask Albert to answer the Prevnar question and then Mikael will handle the evolving profile of competitive products and our evolving profile and also the CTLA-4 question. Thank you.

ALBERT BOURLA: Thank you, Ian. The statement is exactly the same as we did it last time. Overall we expect the total full year Prevnar franchise revenues to be slightly down compared to 2015. As you said, we were down 2% operationally and that was driven primarily by the adult indication, which as expected, was down approximately 26% in the US. Notably the quarter sequentially grew 37% versus second quarter because we're entering a high flu season. And then in the international markets, and in the US pediatric, excuse me, in the third quarter we were up 21%. But this was driven by the volatility we see in this case. The CDC orders were much higher in this quarter.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Yes, we are very excited and appreciative on the Ibrance profile that's been taken up extremely well by patients and physicians. It's viewed as an effective, really well-tolerated therapy and has had a profile for both metastatic breast cancer patients that has been great, and we see the profile being very suitable for what's early breast cancer and many other indications.

Now, we tend to not comment on other products. And as you know, it's difficult to compare across trials, but in contrast to other products, we have not seen issues with elevated liver tests, no issues with cardiovascular or QTC, nor issues with EI. Our product has been really well behaving and we think its profile works across the breast cancer segment, as well as in many other indications.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. CTLA-4 question, Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: On the CTLA-4 differentiation. So when it comes to CTLA-4, our view --.

IAN READ: I think he's referring to potential license and opportunity we have.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Oh, okay. Well, thank you for that. As you know, the CTLA-4 agents are quite powerful, but have been limited by quite some systemic adverse events. We do look at having the most comprehensive IO portfolio combination portfolio in the industry. And as you know, we're quite excited about some of our existing assets like 4-1BB, as a great partner to PD1, PDL1, OX-40, IDO1, all of these advancing in our portfolio.

We do obviously assess the CTLA-4 class but the type of drugs we are looking at would be a CTLA-4 variant that would have some best-in-class properties that would retain efficacy but attenuate the [addressamental] function. Ad those are the ones we are looking at evaluating and that would fit with our view of immuno-oncology product to be efficacious but easy to administrate and well tolerated.

IAN READ: Thank you, Michael.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hi, thanks very much for taking my questions. First of all, on Enbrel, I wonder if you could give us a bit more color on the market dynamics there for pricing and switching in markets where you have biosimilars.

Second, on Ibrance, I guess the prescription data is beginning to suggest that in the United States, at least, you may have reached a duration of therapy out there in the market. I wonder if you could give us a bit more color of what duration of therapy looks like in first-, second- and third-line patients.

And then in general, sounds like you remain pretty committed on cardiovascular as a therapeutic area. Just how and when will we see you build that out further in terms of developing pipeline assets there? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you. I'm going to take cardiovascular on first. As we sit here today, we have good assets in cardiovascular. We think it's an important area and we'll continue to look for ways of strengthening our position there to ensure that we can be part of cardiovascular.

Of course, like all of our therapy areas, we review these on an annual basis and make decisions on where we want to go and how much we want to invest. None of this will be an exception this year when we once again look at our long-term strategies in all of our therapeutic areas.

I can ask Albert to answer the Enbrel and Ibrance question, but I'd like to point out with Ibrance in the marketplace, we're very pleased with the reaction from patients and physicians for the treatment of Ibrance and it's relatively benign side effect profile. Go ahead.

ALBERT BOURLA: Thank you, Ian, and thank you, Jeff for the question. In the third quarter revenues for Enbrel were down 12%. This decline reflects the negative impact from biosimilars in Europe that were launched late in Q1. We have been preparing for biosimilar competition for quite some time. And to try to continue to differentiate Enbrel by generating new data, by enhancing the patient experience, and of course by leveraging our expertise in inflammation.

For the remainder of the year, we expect continued modest uptake of biosimilars. But due to our limited long-term safety and efficacy data, we anticipate the usual primarily in new patients, as physicians look to gain experience with these problems.

On your question on pricing. So far, of the limited pricing we have seen to date for Benepali, the discount letters are in line with our expectations and we expect Enbrel's pricing to be competitive. In Norway or in Denmark, where Benepali won national tenders, let me say no idioms, top is the outcome of their tender and Benepali won the tender with a 47% discount, while Enbrel provided a 41% discount. But it is important to note that the tender process in Norway is not indicative by any means of the pricing practices, entrance, typically seen in other markets across Europe.

Now, let me speak about Ibrance. Ibrance had a terrific launch and has quickly become the standard of care. Since launch, has been prescribed by more than 8,500 physicians, reaching more than 40,000 patients. This rapid uptake is a testament to its efficacy and its outstanding safety and tolerability profile. Very low rate of grade 3 or 4 GI side effects such as fatigue or diarrhea.

Now as expected, given this performance, we are starting to see some tempering of growth. But let me clarify that recent reporting changes at IMS due to some specialty pharmacy consolidations, might be modeling the orders and not showing an accurate picture. Based on our data, we continued to grow in scripts by 9% in the third quarter versus the second quarter of 2016, sequentially, which aligns with our own net sales growth of 7% quarter after quarter.

Now moving forward, our strategy with Ibrance is evolving. So far growth of Ibrance has come from establishing the product to early-adopting physicians. We believe growth in the next three years in the US will come from late adopters, but have limited prescriptions so far. We are now moving to the second phase of our strategy and building a dedicated sales team and fee-based medical organization to maximize this opportunity. In addition, the publication of our Phase 3 PALOMA-2 study data, which we anticipate to occur by year-end, will be important additional data for these late-adopting physicians.

Now, outside the US, additional growth will come from our geographical expansion. As you know, Ibrance is registered in the US and now in 20 more countries. And we have received positive opinion from CHMP Europe and expect registration later this year. And last but not least, in the mid-term the growth will come from the many studies currently running to move to earlier lines of breast cancer.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert.

OPERATOR: John Scotti, Evercore ISI.

JOHN SCOTTI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi thanks for taking my questions. Initially for Ian, so I wanted to ask a corporate strategy question. I wanted to get your sense on appetite potentially for other actions, from a corporate strategy perspective, in addition to M&A, given that you decided not to split, et cetera. So things like spin-outs of business units, such as consumer, shock and awe, buy-back.

And then, of course, also any color on the M&A environment right now. Are you still in the market for a transformative deal? And what are your therapeutic added categories of interest?

And then finally on IO, I wanted to ask what your thoughts are in the probability of success of your study in the first-line PD-L1 positive setting for avelumab reading out next year? Do you have the ability to change the PD-L1 cutoff?

And then based on your current thoughts on how the market will play out, do you intend to move IO-IO combos or chemo combos into Phase 3? And when should we expect those registrational trials to start? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. On the corporate strategy issue around the use of our cash flows, we have always had a combination of use of cash flows between buy-backs, dividends, investment in our portfolio, also business development. That combination is what we continue to try to maximize.

So I would say today on the M&A part of it, on the business development part of it, our appetite for continued acquisitions or investments in business development remains firm, that if it can improve the return to shareholders, we would act on it. And I don't believe that we're limited in the size of the deal we could do.

That being said, clearly, if you do it in therapeutic areas you're already well established in, you tend to get more value because you get the value of the synergies in that area. So you tend to be looking to do deals in the areas where you're already strong.

Secondly, I do think that the whole industry is on pause right now in major business development while we wait to see the consequences of primarily, I would suggest, tax policy on the results of the elections. Thank you, I'll pass it over to Albert to deal with the other questions. Not Mikael, sorry, I apologize. It's Mikael.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Thank you, Ian. I think the way we approach clinical trials is always to be agile and adapt to new information. Clearly, we have taken notice about the impact of high PD-L1 for response in first-line lung cancer. We are reviewing how to best execute the design of our trial and you can be certain that we will incorporate the most appropriate design to maximize likelihood of success. Certainly we are encouraged that our drug and the class will do well in PD-L1-high lung cancers.

Now when it comes to opportunity to advance the class further, I really appreciated your question because I think in 2017 and 2018 you'll see Pfizer propel us among the leaders when it comes to combination therapies. We aspire to have up to six triple therapies in the clinic by 2018 and up to four of them in the clinic by the end of this year. That will include treatment IO agents such as 4-1BB, avelumab and OX40.

It will include doublets and triplets with chemo and IO agents. It will include also combinations with other emerging drugs in our pipeline, whether targeted drugs, as well as combination drugs such as antibody drug conjugates, small molecules like IDO. I think what you will see is across many solid tumors, some of the larger tumor cases, lung, ovarian, gastric, as well as in blood cancers, a large set of trials that will be doublets and triplets and will address the need to further augment the promising results of immuno-oncology as well as deal with the colder tumors that [inaudible].

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. I'd like to add to that the commercial importance is that we have all of those agents in house and will enable a more efficient and focused relationship for the payers.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks Mikael and Ian. Our next question, please.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. First question for you, Ian. It's been bantered about that there could be a repatriation bill. If there was one, what would the dynamics of that repatriation bill need to look like for you to consider repatriating some of the $80 billion that you have trapped offshore, that you might potentially like to bring back to the States to put to use?

Second question on pricing. I don't think you answered Jami's question on price-volume and the contribution there. But delving on pricing a little further, certainly McKesson and Cardinal have indicated they expect significantly less price increases next year. Is your innovation product group and your established health group anticipating a similar level of increases to what they took in 2016? Or less of increases as have been evidenced by what McKesson and Cardinal have said?

Then lastly on Xeljanz. Any update on the European review on Xeljanz and the timing for potentially supplementing that with ulcerative colitis and the psoriasis data. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Albert, could you deal with the Xeljanz question first?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes. Let me say first of all that the Xeljanz continued robust growth. This growth is primarily due to increasing confidence as a monotherapy agent and includes Xeljanz in the ACR guidelines, introductions for Xeljanz XR, and growing brand awareness among patients.

Now, to your question. We are expanding Xeljanz both geographically and therapeutically. Geographically, we are moving it to Europe. As you're aware, in March the EMA accepted our application for the treatment of moderate to severe RA. The application provides additional information to the original submission.

It includes data from the oral development program which consisted of six completed Phase 3 clinical trials, plus two open-label long-term expansion studies, one of which is still ongoing. While we cannot speculate what would be European authorities' decision, we are very confident on the strength of the data. The discussions are going very, very well.

On the UC and psoriatic arthritis, we are continuing the development of those three indications. We have high, they represent high unmet medical need, and as a result high potential commercial potential. And we plan to file in 2017, is the answer.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert. Frank, do you have the numbers on pricing?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. As you mentioned before, Ian, we have been and we are and we expect to continue to be, responsible players when it comes to pricing. In terms of the absolute numbers, if you look historically on a total Company basis, enterprise-wide, our price impact on any given year is plus or minus a range of low single-digits.

And that's what we are seeing again this year on the plus side, a low single-digit increase. That's what we've seen historically, that's what we are seeing again this year. And obviously for 2017, John asked about 2017, when we provide our 2017 guidance in January, we'll also talk about major assumptions relative to pricing.

IAN READ: And John, as I've said before, on pricing, we're going to continue to use the philosophy we've always used, which is to look at the value of products, look at it in the context of the marketplace, handle the affordability outside of insurance by our programs that allow people without insurance or poor insurance to get it for free from Pfizer. So I don't see any, and I don't expect at this moment in time, that there's going to be any dramatic change in Pfizer's policies there.

Now on repatriation, I would hope that Congress, with the administration, will reform the international tax code as soon as possible next year. I think it is highly uncompetitive and negative to business and jobs in the United States. So I would hope they would reform it in terms of not only repatriation, but going to a territorial system or another title system that permanently puts us on a level playing field with foreign companies. I can't really speculate on how they are going to do exact mechanisms, but we would evaluate the law they pass and we would make the appropriate decisions and we'd see what they're proposing. Thank you, John.

OPERATOR: Richard Purkiss, Piper Jaffrey.

RICHARD PURKISS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Hi, thanks. Two quick questions, if that's okay. Could Frank just run through if there are any specific FX moves that are driving higher COGS in the third quarter?

And then just a question on biosimilars for John. Do you think the branded injectable industry is as complacent now as the branded pill industry was in the first half of the last decade? Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So I'll take the FX question first, which is there's really two things driving the impact on, I'll call it gross margin. I know you used cost of sales, it's easier to do FX. One is FX negatively impacted revenues by $224 million or 2%. It also negatively impacted COGS by $189 million.

Now typically FX, it operates like an ocean tide. Everything rises, everything falls, in the same direction. But we had an atypical move this quarter. We actually had it last quarter too, very unusual, where revenues were down, COGS were up.

So if you look at our cost of sales as a percentage of revenue this quarter, 22.7%. If you remove the impact of foreign exchange, that 22.7% becomes 20.9%. So FX had a material negative impact overall on cost of sales.

By the way, this kind of atypical relationship between revenues and cost of sales and we don't expect it to continue in 2017. We do expect it to continue next quarter. And it's really being driven primarily by Japan and within Japan, obviously the yen, based on what's going on there relative to the currency fluctuations of the yen and the amount of in-market inventory that we have there. But net net 22.7% becomes 20.9% for the quarter.

JOHN YOUNG: So Richard, thanks for the question. I certainly wouldn't characterize the industry or specific companies as complacent, but I think we would always say, obviously, the life blood of any Company is its ability to innovate. But where there are important treatments that are coming towards the end of their period of patent protection, we, as you obviously know, are very positive about the opportunities that biosimilars represent to be able to bring treatment options to patients that actually can add real value to the healthcare system. And so we are very focused on what we can do to bring that value to healthcare systems and patients and depositions in the US and around the world.

IAN READ: Yes, I don't accept the comparison to small molecules to sterile injectables. Sterile injectables is an incredibly complex process and it's high-capital and needs constant focus on quality. The FDA is very active in ensuring that they meet those qualities. So I really don't think that the risk and return on capital in the sterile injectables could be compared to the small molecule business.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks very much. Just two questions here. The first coming back to Ibrance. Is there any numbers you can put around how large the opportunity is for this next cohort of physicians that you're planning on targeting post the PALOMA-2 publication? What percent of market does that represent or percent of physicians does that represent?

And the second was just staying on Ibrance as well, when we think about the EU opportunity for the drug, how should we think about both the launch and size of that opportunity relative to what we've see in the US? How would you compare and contrast the uptake we've seen here versus what you hope to see as we roll out in Europe?

IAN READ: Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes. I will try to give you magnitude of elevation. We do have very high penetration among target physicians in the US. So many of them in the range of 20% are prescribing. But the vast majority only prescribing one to three prescriptions so far. So they are just testing the waters for the product. This is where the opportunity is coming. And this is why we have developed a specific force and this is why I think the publication of PALOMA-2 data will catalyze this.

In terms of the EU markets, I cannot obviously give you a forward-looking statement on our focus. But we aim for leaders with Ibrance there. And we think that we've had very robust plans. We have built our sales forces. We are expecting the approval now with one of the most comprehensive compassionate-use products that Pfizer's ever launched, more than 1,000 patients on Ibrance. And we are looking to the future with a lot of optimism.

IAN READ: I'll just add to that to your question on the EU and the US and the only sort of thing I could say to you is if you look at our experience with Sutent, or perhaps the industry experience, you normally see that the European markets are once you have the endorsement can be as robust as the US market in specialty high-value drugs.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks very much for the question. So just a couple here. First off, can you guys talk a little bit about the scale in the Consumer business as it sits today? And your interest in expanding and building out those assets, as well as the argument for its fit inside the Innovative business rather than the GEP business?

The second question is excluding product-specific issues, if you were looking at the PCSK9 market and the class with fresh eyes today, given your comments about the market itself, would you still view this as an attractive area for new investment for Pfizer? And then the last question is as we look at and consider the market opportunity and your considerations in IO, I would argue that it implies either a unique ability to displace existing players or a larger market opportunity. Can you give us your thoughts on which of the two you see for Pfizer going forward? Thanks.

IAN READ: So on the IO, there is both opportunities. You're going to expand by the combination therapies tumors that today we call cold, they don't react, they don't benefit from PD-L1 therapy. And you also see a replacement ability because we expect to have our efficacy with these combinations in triplets. So I think on the IO we'll get both of those if we're successful.

On the PCSK9 question, if you ask me would I today begin a new PCSK9 program, the answer is no. We're too far behind. And on the Consumer business, it's a valuable business. It's growing well. We're investing, we've made acquisitions, but like all other businesses, they are all -- we all look at them and we subject them to tests of are they worth more inside or outside of Pfizer? And we'll continue to run those tests. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, on Ibrance, can you give us the penetration rates for first, second and third line so we can figure out where we are and how much is more to go? And then second question, remind us what the next milestone is for the Medivation PARP. Ad third, can you give us an update on China and how that's doing in the quarter and year-to-date and what the trends are there? Thanks.

ALBERT BOURLA: Okay. For Ibrance, belated, but I saw them today in my office, we have about 50% in first line and 50% in second line of markets there.

IAN READ: Okay, thank you. Medivation, Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, thank you for asking about the PARP inhibitor. I think it's really a growing drug class which was fueled by very promising data that was presented at ESMO. And within that class we are very excited about talazoparib because of its very strong potency and also that is has a potentially unique differentiation with what is called PARP trapping.

When it comes to the near-term opportunities, we have a Phase 3 trial called EMBRACA, which is in BRCA-mutated breast cancer that has a read out due next year, possibly middle of the year. We look forward very much to see that data set as we think that the talazoparib and PARP class in these typeS of sensitized tumors with DNA repair deficiency, can perform very well and supplement other therapies.

I wanted just to punctuate that the existence of this BRCA and other DNA repairs deficiency now goes into a number of cancers and opportunity is likely much larger than earlier anticipated. It's not just breast, ovarian, but also increasingly seen in prostate and lung. And these tumors often carry a high mutation of burden which allow us uniquely to combine talazoparib with the immune-oncology product. And of course that can include doublets like avelumab and potentially even triplets. So I think you should really keep an eye on what we may be able to do with our really comprehensive opportunity to move this asset standalone and in combination.

IAN READ: Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And the numbers on China. For the quarter, operational revenue growth, 16%. Year-to-date operational revenue growth, 10%. And we remain bullish on China, decreasing population, increasing personal wealth, increased government commitment to healthcare spending, strong GDP, although moderated somewhat. But net net, doing very well there and we remain bullish.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Couple of questions, please. First, going back to the PBMs which are clearly striving to deliver value for their shareholders. CVS pulled Xtandi and Tasigna two oral cancer drugs from their 2017 formulary. Given and following your acquisition of Medivation, plus your existing compounds, the contribution from all cancer drugs in your portfolio is going to be highly significant as we go out five years. Within those categories, there's going to be three CDK-6s, probably five ALKs. Xtandi, as we mentioned, is already gone. I guess what I'm driving at is, what do you see the risk that PBMs will alight upon oral cancer drugs and therefore their vulnerabilities given your exposure in that area.

And then second, on ribociclib the toxicity that's been reported for ribociclib, Mikael you mentioned that yours is behaving very well. There's been case reports of hepatic failure with palbo. What do you see more broadly in the real world practice? Do you think what you're seeing or what Novartis is seeing with the ribociclib is due to CV6 activity? Or just simply off-target activity of their particular molecule? Or are you seeing anything to suggest that may be mechanism and may in fact impact your molecule as well? Many thanks.

IAN READ: On the PBM question. You know, Xtandi was being managed by Medivation and we probably have more extensive and deeper relationships with the payers than Medivation, so that's one. Two, while I think that PBMs will take a hard look at what they can achieve, you have to realize that there's a huge emotional content around oncology and a huge impact on lives saved, value of life months added.

And even in countries like the UK, you've seen them have to react to outrage from the population of lack of access. So I think you'll see a good balance in our society between access and pricing and the efficacy of the drugs. So with that, I think we have the Ibrance question and Medivation and we go to Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: We are always careful to comment on other companies' drugs, but I hear you saying that ribociclib has had reports on cases with liver and also with cardiovascular. And as you heard from Albert and myself, Ibrance has performed extremely well. It has a very nice tolerability appreciated by patients and physicians. We haven't seen these type of issues with our drug, so I'll likely conclude it doesn't seem to be related to CDK4 and 6. But I'm careful to comment on other companies' drugs.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Mikael.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you. A few questions. On Xeljanz can you talk about the US reimbursement outlook heading into 2017? It's a crowded category, lots of moving parts in that marketplace.

Second question on PBM, going back to the very first question you got, but asked differently. Do you think that there's going to be a material change in the relationship between pharma companies and PBMs going forward over, let's say, the next three years? Whether it's a good relationship or not, do you foresee that there's actually going to be a material change?

And then a last quick question on CTLA4 again, and I know it's pre-clinical but you did call out differentiation. You're not in humans yet. I'm wondering what gives you the basis to think that that might have a differentiated clinical profile?

IAN READ: Okay, Xeljanz.

ALBERT BOURLA: The current growth of Xeljanz, this is very impressive, 86%, is driven by primarily by the increasing confidence for Xeljanz as monotherapy, inclusion in the ACR guidelines. There is an introduction of Xeljanz XR and growing brand awareness among patients. All of these reasons, plus our extensive relations with payers are driving to us having increasing in access. Right now, we think that the access is going to be much higher in 2017 than it is in 2016.

IAN READ: On PBMs, we work with PBMs. They had played up-to-date a role in improving access and reducing cost for patients. I think the issue of the size of the rebates and the net pricing and the general focus on getting pricing transparency could have a marked change, but it would require legislative change.

I don't think absent legislative change, I think the market will be stable around the PBMs. So just depends what happens when the new administration, Congress is in and how much they want to get rid of this issue of having high gross prices and low net prices, which I think today we would say it's a disservice to patients, especially those not insured or poorly insured.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: I really appreciate, Tim your interest in how we try to build an industry-leading combination portfolio. And as you know, we have up to 10 different immuno-oncology products. And as I stated, we will have six triplets by 2018, multiple doublets in 2017, and four triplets.

Among the many opportunities, given that we think there are ample potential to expand IO beyond what we've seen with single therapies, we do evaluate and defeat a full monoclonal antibodies that you came back to. I tried to stay at the high level because I don't want to, in detail, reveal what type of approaches we are considering. But basically, we think there are opportunities to potentially see a second generation also of CTLA4 that will deliver the benefit that you see in the tumor, but possibly have a better safety profile. And we do look at CTLA4 that could have this differentiated profile.

As you have noticed our agreement with OncoImmune as one example. And then maybe several opportunities to tailor next generation of CTLA4 antibodies to potentially have such a differentiated profile. So that's why we are eager to try to add this to our nice collection of IO agents. But I have to obviously be careful in not revealing what we think are the unique opportunities that we are assessing. As our portfolio matures, we'll talk more about them.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. I have two questions. First, with respect to biosimilar Remicade, do you believe that the NOR-SWITCH trial will be relevant at all to US payers or the US medical community? And then second, for Frank, could you comment on the operational efficiency opportunities that you foresee in the future for Pfizer? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay, John?

JOHN YOUNG: Okay, so thanks for the question, David. So obviously we think that the increased data on biosimilars and the utilization in appropriate patient populations is going to be helpful to make sure that patients, that physicians, that payers can gain confidence in how to use them appropriately.

NOR-SWITCH is a significant additional add to the data that we have for Inflectra. As you know, it was a randomized double-blind parallel group study with almost 500 patients. And importantly it was funded by the Norwegian government. The study found no significant difference in disease worsening between patients who underwent a single switch to Inflectra, CT-P13, versus those who remained on Remicade. It also found that the incidents of anti-drug antibodies and the frequency of reported adverse events between Remicade and Inflectra CT-P13 were similar.

So we think that the impact of that data is that it certainly will be helpful and informative in helping to make sure that physicians, patients and indeed, payers, can make an informed choice about the role that biosimilars and Inflectra specifically, can play in that patient population.

IAN READ: Thank you. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: On operational efficiency, Dave, I think two comments on this. One, obviously with the two separate businesses we have running within the Company, separate leadership teams, separate accountability, really managing their businesses in a very detailed way. We see that as a potential for operational efficiency.

And then as a Company, we're always looking at every dollar, every dollar of capital that we deploy always with the intent of how do we maximize, how do we optimize the capital that we spend. So given that, that's what we meant when we talked about operational efficiency.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Operator, if we could please take our last question.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great thanks so much for getting me in. Just two questions, following up on topics that came up before. One, on your decision to not split. I'm wondering if you can give any sense around timing for when you may reassess that decision. Is there an ongoing review? Or should we not assume anything is going to be looked at again for the next several months or several quarters.

And then second one, on the Consumer side, which came up a couple times. Ian, you mentioned it's been growing. But looking back at the numbers, really it doesn't look like it's grown that much since 2013. So I'm curious, internally are there opportunities such as Rx to OTC switches? Or other things that could drive the growth beyond what we've seen over the last two or three years here? Thanks.

IAN READ: I see growth in Consumer today. It's not a market that grows that much for us. Albert could talk to that.

ALBERT BOURLA: It would be this quarter we grew 2% but the year-to-date growth is 5%. And we expect to be -- which is beating the market growth and we expect to stay there.

IAN READ: It's a very valuable asset inside our Company. As I said, we look at all of our businesses to continue to test if they're generating the right return for shareholders.

On the split issue, I think we've made a decision. It was a major undertaking to look at it. I don't expect us to revisit that on a quarterly basis, as you suggested. I think it will be reviewed in the context of strategic decisions on a longer time frame than that.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you and thanks, everybody, for your time this morning.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Pfizer's third-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc | hospra : Hospira Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i8395414 : Scientific Research Services | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | imedres : Medical Research Services | iphhss : Healthcare Support Services | iphlab : Medical/Clinical/Diagnostic Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161102ecb1002s1
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,323 words
   PD
2 August 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's second-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's second-quarter 2016 performance. As usual, I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla, President of Pfizer Innovative Health; John Young, President of Pfizer Essential Health; and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel.

The slides that will be presented on the call can be viewed on our homepage www.Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance - Second Quarter 2016, and this is located in the For Investors section, which is in the lower right-hand corner of the page.

Before we start I'd like to remind you that our discussion during this call will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Additional information regarding these factors is discussed under the disclosure notice section in the earnings press release we issued this morning as well as in Pfizer's 2015 annual report on Form 10-K, included in Part I, item 1A: Risk Factors. And this is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, available at SEC.gov and at the Pfizer website, Pfizer.com. Forward-looking statements during this conference call speak only as of the original date of this call and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these statements.

In addition, discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, August 2, 2016. Any non-GAAP measures presented are not and should not be viewed as substitutes for financial measures required by US GAAP; they have no standardized meaning prescribed by US GAAP, and may not be comparable to the calculations of similar measures at other companies.

We will now make prepared remarks, then we will move to a Q&A session. With that, I would now turn the call over to Ian Read.

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck, and thank you for joining our call this morning.

During my remarks I will briefly talk about the performance of the business and provide some thoughts regarding each of our businesses and our pipeline. Our financial performance year to date is strong. Even stripping out the impact of the legacy Hospira business, we reported another quarter of operational revenue growth that is driving our solid EPS performance. We achieved this through continued strong performance of new products, in addition to patent-protected products that are later in their lifecycle, as well as operational growth in emerging markets. This was accomplished despite some continued headwinds from products' loss of exclusivity.

As you know, to ensure the appropriate level of focus and autonomy, we have evolved our operating model into two distinct businesses: the innovative business we now call Pfizer Innovative Health; and an established products business we now call Pfizer Essential Health. Through the first six months of the year the businesses are executing well against their strategies, as demonstrated by each unit's results. A few words about each.

At Pfizer Innovative Health we continuously strengthen our core brands, including Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Lyrica, and Chantix. More specifically, Xeljanz has been prescribed to more than 50,000 patients worldwide. The revenues for the quarter were $217 million, which represents 70% operational growth versus quarter 2, 2015. Eliquis utilization adoption continues to rapidly increase. More than 3.5 million patients already have been prescribed Eliquis. It is now the number one prescribed oral anticoagulant among cardiologists in the US, Japan, and several European countries. As our partner, Bristol Myers, reported, revenues in the second quarter were strong, representing 75% operational year-over-year growth and 90% year-to-date operational growth.

Regarding Ibrance, approximately 35,000 patients have now been treated with, by 7,600 prescribers since its launch in February last year. And it has now been approved in 14 countries in addition to the US. We anticipate receiving a decision from EU regulators around the end of the year. In Q2 we achieved revenues of $514 million and for the first six months of the year totaled $942 million.

Our Prevnar 13 franchise continues to be a significant contributor. With the success of our adult launch in the US, approximately 40% of the adult 65 and plus population have been vaccinated as of the end of June. Achieving year-over-year growth is now more difficult because of a reduction in the number of US adults over 65 who have not received their Prevnar 13 shot. We do, however, expect overall global Prevnar franchise sales for the full year will be comparable to slightly below 2015 levels.

During the quarter we closed the Anacor acquisition, which is a nice complement to our inflammation/immunology portfolio within the Innovative business. The Anacor acquisition is a great example of the type of opportunistic bolt on acquisition that augments our portfolio with a pipeline product that is potentially close to market launch.

In terms of the pipeline, we believe there are significant late stage opportunities in the innovative business in key areas such as Immuno-Oncology, CV/metabolic, vaccines, I&I, rare diseases, neuroscience, and pain. In Immuno-Oncology we have started Phase 3 studies for avelumab in bladder and ovarian cancer, adding to numerous existing studies already underway for the compound.

Together with our partner Merck KGaA, we plan to file avelumab for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma at the end of quarter 3, 2016 in the US, and by the end of 2016 in the EU. In CAR-T we are working with Servier on a joint clinical development program or UCART19, a product developed by Cellectis. We have exclusive rights from Servier to develop and commercialize UCART19 in the United States. And in June, Cellectis announced the first patient was treated in a Phase 1 pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia trial, marking the first clinical trial of UCART19.

And last week we expanded our Immuno-Oncology portfolio by entering into a development collaboration license and option agreement with Western Oncolytics. We will collaborate with them on the preclinical and clinical development of a novel oncolytic vaccinia virus, WO-12, through Phase 1 trials. Following the completion of the Phase 1 trial, we have an exclusive option to acquire WO-12.

Under our Oncology portfolio we completed our Phase 3 study for inotuzumab in adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD22-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Based on the study's results, we are planning to pursue regular submissions; and if approved, inotuzumab could be a valuable new addition to challenge available treatment options for these patients. Currently, adult patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia have a five-year survival rate of less than 10%, making these patients particularly difficult to treat.

We're also continuing to see success with Xalkori. It is now the first and only FDA-approved biomarker-driven therapy for the treatment of ROS1-positive metastatic non-small-cell cancer. In a clinical trial of 50 patients, two-thirds responded to the treatment, and the medium durational response exceeded 1.5 years. While the patient population is limited, it is an important advancement for patients who previously had limited treatment options. In July, CHMP adopted a positive opinion recommending extension of the current indication for Xalkori to also include treatment of adults who have ROS-positive advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. This recommendation will now be reviewed by the European Commission.

In vaccines we have two preventative vaccines, Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium difficile, in Phase 2 clinical development. We expect to have C. difficile Phase 2 data towards the end of this year.

In inflammation and immunology, the Anacor acquisition has brought us crisaborole. It is an important potential first-line treatment option for the 18 million to 25 million children and adults in the US who have mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. If approved, this would be a meaningful advancement for these patients, who have not seen new treatment options for their condition in the last 15 years. Last month the detailed results from the pivotal Phase 3 study were published in a peer-reviewed journal and a new drug application is currently under review by the US FDA with an expected action date in January 2017.

For Xeljanz, we have recently announced positive top line results from the third Phase 3 trial of Xeljanz for patients with moderately to severe active ulcerative colitis. The combined findings from the Phase 3 pivotal trial are encouraging and provide evidence that Xeljanz has the potential to be an effective new treatment option that both induces and maintains remission in UC. We also announced results from two pivotal trials in Xeljanz for use in patients with psoriatic arthritis. The two psoriatic arthritis studies, along with a long-term extension study, are expected to form the potential submission package for possible future regulatory applications.

In pain, we've begun enrollment in all the Phase 3 tanezumab study. This program consists of six studies and approximately 7,000 patients in three chronic pain conditions -- three in osteoarthritis, two in chronic low back pain, and one in cancer pain. The study results are projected to begin reporting out in 2018.

We also are strengthening our gene therapy capabilities. Yesterday we announced the acquisition of Bamboo, a privately held biotech company based in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, focused on developing gene therapies for the treatment of patients with rare diseases. The acquisition complements our growing rare disease portfolio with preclinical assets including potential therapies for Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Friedreich's Ataxia.

In addition, we are making good progress in hematology, including a Phase 3 study in sickle cell disease. With our partner Spark, we recently presented data to the World Federation of Hemophilia Congress and have received breakthrough designation for SPK-9001, which is currently being investigated in an ongoing Phase 1/2 trial as potential one-time treatment for hemophilia B.

Turning now to Pfizer Essential Health, the business continues to move closer to stabilizing its revenue base. Excluding the impact of Hospira, the legacy Essential Health business was nearly flat on an operational revenue basis for the first half of the year as compared to a year ago. We continue to expect that this business has the potential to move to operational growth through a combination of expanded Biosimilars and Sterile Injectables portfolios. Much of this is aided by the Hospira acquisition, along with continued growth in emerging markets, which grew by 4% operationally in the second quarter without Hospira and other core areas where the business is a global leader such as anti-infectives.

Of note, we are now the worldwide leader in biosimilars according to IMS revenue. We expect to compete in the first wave of biosimilar launches in the US. And recently we announced our investment to develop a state-of-the-art global biotechnology center in Hangzhou Economic Development Area in China. This innovative facility will ensure the development and manufacture of high-quality affordable biosimilar medicines and have the potential to benefit patients both in China and throughout the world. And to potentially further enhance the revenue growth in this business we will continue to actively manage and reshape our portfolio. Our overreaching objective with Pfizer Essential Health has not changed: to generate a modest but sustainable rate of revenue growth. I believe the business is on a good trajectory and we are taking the actions that will help enable us to achieve this goal.

Turning now to a few comments regarding a potential split of the Company. As we have previously said, we are assessing the merits of separation and expect to arrive at a decision no later than the end of this year. Let me add, this is not a make-or-break decision for the Company. As I have just shared with you, each of our businesses is performing well, and we will continue to pursue the strategies, including opportunistic business developments where appropriate to accelerate our strategy, a strategy that will best position them for long-term success.

As a reminder, our decision criteria for split of the business has not changed. It continues to be based on four questions. Are the businesses doing well within Pfizer? Could the businesses perform well as standalone entities? Is there trapped value in a combined entity? And can the trapped value be unlocked efficiently? We will be thoughtful in evaluating the virtues of a split over the coming months. Our key and primary motivation here is shareholder value and return to shareholders. I don't view there being a wrong answer here. The decision will be taken with straightforward context on the best footpath forward for shareholder value.

In summary, we ended the second half of the year with positive momentum that is positioning us to deliver solid performance for the remainder of the year. Now I'll turn it over to Frank, who will go into greater details of the results for the quarter. Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO, EVP BUSINESS OPERATIONS & CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone.

As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. As a reminder, because we completed the acquisition of Hospira on September 3, 2015, Pfizer's second-quarter and first-half 2016 financial results include Hospira global operations, while the comparable prior year periods do not include any legacy Hospira operations.

Now moving on to the financials, second-quarter revenues were approximately $13.1 billion, and reflect year-over-year operational growth of $1.6 billion, or 13%, which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $302 million, or 3%. Legacy Hospira operations contributed $1.1 billion to revenues. If you exclude foreign exchange and the contribution from the legacy Hospira operations, Pfizer standalone revenues grew operationally by $458 million, or 4%.

In developed markets, operational revenue growth of $1.5 billion, or 17%, was driven by legacy Hospira operations and the continued strong performance of Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, and Lyrica, which were partially offset by expected lower revenues from Prevnar 13 Adult in the US due to the high initial capture rate after its launch in the fourth quarter of 2014, resulting in a smaller catch-up opportunity versus the year-ago quarter, product losses of exclusivity, and the expiration of the collaboration agreement to co-promote in the US.

In emerging markets, operational revenue growth of $116 million, or 4%, was driven by legacy Hospira operations and certain Essential Health products, primarily in China, which were partially offset by lower revenues for Prevnar 13 due to the timing of purchases from Gavi and the Vaccine Alliance and in certain other emerging markets.

Second-quarter reported diluted EPS was $0.33 compared with $0.42 in the year-ago quarter due to higher asset impairment charges, product losses of exclusivity, foreign exchange, higher charges for legal matters, and the Allergan termination fee; which were partially offset by increased revenues from certain new, inline, and acquired products as well as a lower effective tax rate. Second-quarter adjusted diluted EPS was $0.64 versus $0.56 in the year-ago quarter. The increase was primarily due to increased revenues, a lower effective tax rate, and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, which declined by 106 million shares versus the year-ago quarter, due to our share repurchase program; which were partially offset by an aggregate operational increase in adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses of $913 million, or 13%, which includes the addition of Hospira operations in 2016, a $0.06 negative impact due to foreign exchange and continuing product losses of exclusivity.

I want to point out that second quarter adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased year over year from 17.9% to 23.3%, primarily due to foreign exchange and the addition of legacy Hospira operations. Also, because foreign exchange increased cost of sales while decreasing revenues at the same time, which is atypical, there was an exaggerated increase of our adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the second quarter. Excluding the foreign-exchange impact, adjusted second-quarter cost of sales as a percentage of revenue would have been 21.3%. We believe that this is an anomaly rather than a trend, and we have maintained our 2016 adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue guidance.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted second-quarter revenues by approximately $302 million, or 3%, and negatively impacted the net of adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses by $106 million, or 1%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted second-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.06 compared with the year-ago quarter. As you can see on the chart, we are reaffirming revenues on adjusted components of our 2016 financial guidance based on our strong performance to date and continued confidence in the business going forward.

Moving on to key takeaways, we achieved another quarter of operational revenue growth driven by the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations, new products that are early in their life cycle such as Ibrance, Eliquis, and Xeljanz, as well as the solid performance of Lyrica. We reaffirm 2016 revenue and adjusted diluted EPS financial guidance. We announced and completed the acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals and accomplished several key product and pipeline milestones; and we returned $8.7 billion to shareholders in the first half of 2016 through dividends and share repurchases, including a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2016 and beyond.

Now I will turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian and Frank, for the review. Now, Operator, if you could please poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thanks so much for taking the question. Ian, I hope you're well. Frank, I hope you're well.

Ian, on the topic of the split, I think at Tim's conference a month ago or so, you made some remarks that the Street interpreted as you backing away from a split and that's sort of the widely-held consensus view now. So I'd just like to hear you explain what did you actually mean to communicate at that particular broker conference? And then if I may, maybe for Dolsten, can we get an update on the oral PCSK9 and timelines for the injectable CVOT trials and whether there's any possibility you would file before they are out? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mark.

First of all, I want to stress that no decision has been made and ultimately our decision will be based on what we believe is the best interest of the shareholders. And, going back to my prepared remarks, we are looking at these four criteria of are the businesses performing well, do we believe the business will continue to perform well, do we believe there's trapped value, and can we extract it on an after tax basis.

So I don't know what the Street perceived, or I signaled or didn't signal in that meeting. I indicated I do believe that the trapped value question has become more complicated with both the increase in our share value and the decrease in the P/E for the comparables. We continue to have very robust dialogue in the Company preparing for this decision, certainly stress testing with our two management teams on issues of what initiatives inside their strategies could only be done if they were separate. And this is, I think, a key point to look at. Is there some material obstacle inside the Company for implementation of strategies of either of these divisions if they remain inside Pfizer or can all material strategies be efficiently implemented if we were part of Pfizer.

So no decision has been taken and we will make that call by the end of the year. And I look forward to giving a decision on that, but what I would like to stress is, that I don't think that optionality necessarily has an expiration date. Like any business we have in Pfizer, whether it's any part of our business, we continually look at our capital allocation. We continue to look at what's in the best interest of Pfizer, which businesses can prosper best in Pfizer. And so, what I would say on optionality is that we will have set up the infrastructure and to be able to look at this question at any point in the future if the decision was at the end of the year to remain as we are with both divisions inside Pfizer.

Should we go to oral PCSK9?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: We don't think that the oral PCSK9 profile would be competitive with the strong LDL lowering seen with PCSK9 antibodies, observed in many phase 3 trials. In the CVMET area we actually have moved other interesting products forward and we have two NMEs coming into the exciting field of NASH. Albert, do you want to share a comment on the regulatory strategy for --

ALBERT BOURLA, GROUP PRESIDENT VACCINES, ONCOLOGY & CONSUMER HEALTHCARE, PFIZER INC.: And the progress of our program with sterile injectable, yes. We recently confirmed that the first study has met the required endpoints, the remaining two ongoing Spire-2 lowering studies are anticipated to complete later in 2016. Patient enrollment in the SPIRE-2 cardiovascular outcome was completed in April 2016. And based on our current estimate, the primary completion of SPIRE-2 the study is expected to occur in the second half of 2017.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Albert. Next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you.

Ian would you say it's fair to say that maximizing your tax structure and access to balance sheet, things you care deeply about, are things that cannot be addressed anytime soon without a separation of some kind? And then, second question if I could ask for your latest intentions on launching Inflectra and are there any key legal milestones that we should be aware of here in the coming months? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. A separation doesn't under current tax laws facilitate a speedy ability to change the domicile for either of the companies. Under the separation rules now, both companies would be held to the standard of the combined company for three years post the separation. So under present tax laws, I don't see a separation as being a quick route to improving the tax situation.

However, I am and remain optimistic that this tax issue will be dealt with by Washington, hopefully in the near future. And I think there is a general consensus that we do need to have tax reform to enable US multinationals to be competitive. On the launch of infliximab, I'll ask John to answer that.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT GLOBAL ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Okay thanks for the question, Gregg.

In terms of just one initial comment commercially, I would just reconfirm that we are moving ahead with launch preparations and launch timing will be impacted by the upcoming court decision. I'll ask Doug Lankler, our General Counsel, to make a couple of comments there.

DOUG LANKLER, EVP & GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC.: Just to review the dates, so Inflectra was approved on April 5 and we gave our notice to Janssen immediately. That notice period expires on October 2, and we've agreed not to launch before October 3. Earlier this year we filed a motion for summary judgment that Janssen's 471 antibody patent is invalid. Starting on August 16 the Federal Court in Massachusetts will hear arguments on this motion and some other issues. If the court rules in our favor, there will be no legal restriction on our ability to launch. If the court doesn't rule in our favor we still have the trial and we'll review our options at that time.

JOHN YOUNG: To confirm, if the court were to rule in our favor we expect that we would launch Inflectra sometime after October 2 which is after the expiry of the 180-day notice period.

IAN READ: If they don't rule in our favor, we would need to look at it the different scenarios of when we launch, what's the valid launching on our own, what's the risk we are taking, taking that launch risk, what is the loss of value if other competitors come in with us, and we will make that decision once we know the results of the court case.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you.

IAN READ: Frank would like to add something.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Real quick to punctuate what Ian said relative to the tax rate, it's the third set of proposed regs that Treasury issued in April where basically the split companies, if you were to split, each of the split companies would be valued at the pre-split Pfizer valuation for a three-year period. That is just a little bit more sub-ledger detail.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks very much. Just two questions here.

First a question for John on essential medicines, roughly a year post Hospira. Can you just elaborate a little bit on the key growth drivers for your franchise going forward and how you think about a longer-term sustainable growth rate for this business as we move past the remaining LOEs?

The second question coming back to the question of split. I think we've seen past pharma spin offs do very well and uncover additional strategies to drive shareholder value that may not have been considered when they were part of a larger organization, I guess you look at Zoetis for example, I think that's surprised the Street on how much margin leverage they have had. Is that a relevant thing to think about with these much larger businesses you're considering to be splitting here, and how does that factor into a decision to split the Company?

Thanks so much.

IAN READ: Okay, thank you. I will ask John to do the post Hospira, then I will talk about the split, and also Frank to add some comments, too.

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks for the question, Chris.

So first of all, let me just say that we are actually very pleased with the performance in the second quarter and so far this year across all of the segments of our business, both Legacy, portfolio, the peri-LOEs brands, which are performing above market benchmarks, the emerging market business and then the growth drivers, biosimilars and our sterile injectable portfolio. So biosimilars clearly is a very attractive market opportunity.

Pfizer is the leader in total sales with biosimilars commercialized across all three classes. So we are aiming with our development pipeline to really add to our leadership position in the market. Sterile injectables is another attractive segment and clearly that was a primary driver of our acquisition of Hospira. We are the leader in that segment, as well. We continue to be very positive about the opportunities for continued growth in the sterile injectable business.

And then the performance of our core brands in emerging markets continues to be strong. Our business performed well again in the second quarter, primarily driven by some of the incorporation of Hospira operations, but actually even excluding the impact of Hospira, we saw strong performance in the second quarter, as well.

In addition to those core franchises, we also see the anti-infectives portfolio in women's health continuing to be strong therapeutic areas for us where we have a leadership position. So when we put all of those drivers together, even in the face of the impact of LOEs that we are managing on behalf of the Corporation, our aspiration in the medium term is to take the Essential Health business to a growth rate in the low to mid single digit range, and as a consequence we believe we can add significant shareholder value through delivering that performance on a sustainable basis.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. I would add that part of the investment case with Hospira was the launch of some of their portfolio in the international markets. This does not occur immediately. It depends on the state of their different registrations, and frankly we expect that to occur over a two-year period post the integration. So some of that growth internationally will come once registrations are complete. And we continue to look at the total portfolio of the Essential Health business and look for ways of restructuring that. So that is part of the strategy of the team.

With regard to the split, it's a good question when you look at some of the splits in the pharma area and what was perceived as increase in value. Part of that is, I think due to the fact that if you look at perhaps the, you said, the -- our own animal health split or Abbott or Baxter or the others, you have to question, number one, were the separate parts all being invested in equally? I don't think they were. Were they getting the same amount of management attention? I don't think they were.

In our particular case we are investing in both segments heavily and there's a big difference between a division that you're spending being 8% of your revenue and its management attention compared to a division that has 45% of your total revenues. So I think those are things we are looking at, but I do acknowledge that there is this general assumption out there that split companies will improve their performance because of more management focus, which we are trying to deal with by having very distinct leaderships. And also we've looked at some of that research. Perhaps Frank would like to comment on that.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So we look at the S&P 500 index and we compared it to the Guggenheim split company index. And it's interesting. If you look for one year the S&P outperforms the split company index. Five years it's about a push, roughly a push; 10 years the split company index outperforms the S&P 500, but on a compounded growth rate basis 1% and change. So there's no real material difference, at least if you look at the returns on a 1-, 5-, or 10-year period, the S&P versus the index.

IAN READ: So the key question in the [list of long tied off] questions is, what can be done differently if the companies are -- if the divisions were split versus what can be done if they are inside Pfizer. Which brings in, of course, balance sheet, brings in the whole capital structures and also appetite for risk.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thank so much for taking my questions. Good morning, everyone.

So my first one would be for Albert and just around Prevnar, you did, obviously, give the guidance for this year and how to think about the impact of the catch up dosing last year. Can you just talk a little bit more longer-term? How do you see this franchise as you think about 2017-2018, both the US and ex-US. And then also, maybe you could just remind us on, it's been a couple years now since the ACIP recommendation for the adult -- use in adults, what's the timing and the process for them to reassess that? I think it was five years after that initial vote. Can you just remind us?

And then my second one, I think, is for John just on the EH business. You talked about the top line. Maybe a little bit more -- surprised by the margins that we saw this quarter. They were quite a bit below last quarter. Is there something specific to this quarter, or how should we think about the operating margin progression for this business going forward?

Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. Albert will answer the questions you asked and I think on the margins Frank had some interesting analysis that he'll comment on.

ALBERT BOURLA: Speaking of the remaining of this year, overall we expect total revenue of the franchise to be comparable to slightly down compared to 2015, as Ian said. Moving forward, in the US we're focused on capturing the remaining cohort and expanding usage to a greater age range, given the expanded label. However, to realize the full potential of this, we need the ACIP recommendation.

We also continue developing fully in the other markets. As we always do, we will incorporate our expectations into our 2017 guidance that we will provide in January.

But just to make some comments, Prevnar will continue to be a significant program. Generally speaking, in the US we will continue to see a decline as we exhaust the catchup opportunity and then we will stabilize. In the international markets, we will continue growing as we gain more reimbursement and recommendations. And of course we're working to develop the next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccine with additional serotypes.

IAN READ: Thank you Albert.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the Essential Health business in the margins, from a gross margin perspective, it's really a combination of the impact of Hospira, which has lower gross margins relative to the overall business, and then the impact of product LOEs. Those are the two things really driving the gross margin impact.

If you go down operating margin, then once again, it's really a combination of the incremental Hospira SI&A spend and the incremental Hospira R&D spend, which weren't in the prior year numbers. Those two on expenses give or take about $170 million combined. If you drop all that, that's also what's impacting the operating margin.

IAN READ: We're not seeing anything that is outside of our expectations, other than this -- in this timing in the second quarter of the exchange whammy, which is in the cost of goods due to phasing and in the revenue full year forecast take that into account.

FRANK D'AMELIO: We gave guidance for the year. We reaffirmed our cost of sales guidance 21% to 22%, which takes all of that, all of it -- Essential Health, all the FX, we take all that into account.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian and Frank. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you. A couple of questions.

Ian, when you and I spoke about a split up in early June, one of the metrics you said you were considering was how cash flows would be impacted as a split company versus a combined company. And you brought that up a couple of times, almost seeming to signal that there was a cash flow problem of some sort if you were to split. I'm wondering if you could just elaborate on what potential problems might be from a cash flow perspective and balance sheet perspective.

And second question, also in early June when we talked about M&A, you mentioned all options were on the table when talking about deal sizes and I'm wondering how much weight to give language like that. Does it really mean it's reasonably possible that we could see Pfizer spend, let's say $100 billion on an acquisition target? And maybe this is a dumb question, but with your IO platform you're building, are you willing to rule out some of the obvious big IO take out targets like a Bristol or an Astra that would obviously be duplicative in certain ways?

IAN READ: Okay, I don't think there's -- what I indicated to you was that we are looking at the capital structures of the two businesses, and how you deploy the cash flows, and clearly if you are in two distinct divisions, you don't have the same opportunities of deployment of cash if you are in two companies as you do if you are one. You have less choices as to which areas you put it.

When you are one company you can take those cash flows, return them to shareholders, continue investing in your business, pay your dividend, or do business development in the Essential business. Once you split, you've permanently divided those cash flows and of course you lose flexibility. I think that was basically my comment there, which is understandable.

Your question on M&A is, we constantly survey the M&A space. We have the ability to do acquisitions. I don't think we're necessarily limited in size. If the transaction is attractive and creates shareholder value, we have the wherewithal to do the transactions we need to do. And I wouldn't speculate and never have speculated on specific targets or specific opportunities. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I have two questions.

The first is a more near-term question on Prevnar. I believe the last update on the US adult penetration was that about one-third of the market had been penetrated and today it was stated to be 40%. So it appears that there has been some additional penetration, but sales are still down versus Q1 and down versus Q4. So the question is why are sales declining when penetration still appears to be on the uptick?

And the second question is for Dr. Dolsten. Pfizer had some provocative early data on a differentiated gamma secretase inhibitor for Alzheimer's disease at the recent AAIC meeting. Is Pfizer moving ahead with this agent despite multiple failures from other companies in gamma secretase?

Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Steve.

Could you explain the dynamics of the adult market?

ALBERT BOURLA: Steve, the reason why this is happening is because this is a one-time event in the lifetime of the individual adult. So individuals that are vaccinated, they don't have an opportunity to repeat the vaccination in the next year and that counts against you when we move into the next year.

IAN READ: So the increased penetration just indicates you have now got less of a pool to get 100% of the pool vaccinated. We now think 40% have been vaccinated, whereas the remaining 60%, those 60% are harder to get at because most of them have not been vaccinated by Pneumovax, and so they are more difficult targets to access.

ALBERT BOURLA: Those that were vaccinated last year, they don't repeat the vaccination this year, so the growth is declining.

IAN READ: Declining. Okay, Mikael. Gamma secretase.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Thank you for the interest and great that you picked up some of the things we have communicated. We have built a quite nice portfolio in the Alzheimer's space with the gamma secretase modulator and a very selective BACE1 inhibitor. Our gamma secretase modulator was based on extensive work to develop a unique profile in the sense that it modulates rather than inhibits the cleavage of the gamma secretase function, of the A-Beta. So you get the unique profile where you do lower some of the forms of amyloid, the longer forms typically the 1 to 40 amyloid beta that has been assumed to be the most toxic, while it actually preserves and possibly enhance some of the shorter forms that potentially even can be beneficial.

So we do think we have a unique profile and it does not have the type of, so far, side effects that have been reported with gamma secretase inhibitor including GI issues. This has been a very tolerable [clean ride], so we will certainly continue to look at ways to advance this molecule as a standalone molecule, and we have the unique opportunity to consider combining it with BACE1. So it's a field we feel very enthusiastic about the recent advances, and thank you again for having noticed it.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you.

Ian, not to belabor this topic, but forgive me, I am just -- for a couple more questions. If the decision is not to split later this year, should shareholders infer that you believe that Pfizer shares are fully valued? Because you've spent a lot of time talking about what part of the decision is to decide whether or not there is trapped value. So if we decide not, I would assume that would mean you feel there is no trapped value.

My second question is, I think investors are also just frustrated that it is taking so long to decide. Is this all about tax considerations? Because it seems when you initially floated the idea and created three separate companies, which is now two separate companies, you pursued both AstraZeneca and then Allergan. So I'm just wondering how important having a competitive tax basis is to making your decision a tax inversion.

And third, you brought this up in your comments, but just curious, your level of optimism that a new administration will pass broad tax reform. And should that happen, does it make sense for you to wait on deciding on the major transaction or deciding on a split?

Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you.

Well, I would leave the market to decide if Pfizer shares are fully valued or not. I personally think that we have a lot of very positive energy in our pipeline and our stock and whether it is fully valued or not, doesn't mean there is or is not trapped value in one segment of it. So I think they are different questions. The answer would be, I am not sure whether there's trapped value, but I am pretty sure that we have a very robust pipeline and will produce greater value for shareholders as we go forward. And so I think that's the way to answer that.

Now on the tax reform, I am cautiously optimistic as there is more discussion on both sides of the aisle on the need to reform the tax system and the need to invest in the United States. And so, hopefully with a new administration, whoever the administration is in, they will relook at the need and there will be energy around the tax reform. And of course, the potential of that tax reform has implications for what type of transactions you want to do and what type of premiums you want to pay. So it is an influence in our thinking.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Richard Purkiss, Piper Jaffray.

RICHARD PURKISS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Thanks. I've got two questions.

Firstly, can you give us an estimate of Ibrance penetration, broken down if possible by line of therapy in the US? And then, on Sutent, I've been modeling pressure going forward as IO therapies into earlier lines of setting. But is there an opportunity to protect value by moving it into the adjuvant space? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Richard. Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: Thank you very much, Richard.

Let me start by saying we are very pleased with the performance of Ibrance. As Ian said, since launch it has prescribed by more than 7,600 physicians and received by approximately 35,000 metastatic breast cancer patients. On your question on the penetration in the different lines, the most recent market share reports I have seen show that we have reached the first-line market share of 43% and the second and third-line market share of 46% and 24% respectively.

And also we continue to see very strong insurance. Feedback from prescribers and patients continue to be very positive, particularly around patient quality of life. And moving forward, we will continue building momentum in the US as we expand on the penetration in all lines of therapy.

We will continue to expand geographically. As you know we have five in EU and could have an approved product by the end of the year. And we will continue to expand into earlier lines of therapy. As you know we have pivotal studies ongoing in this population.

Now let me move to Sutent. You are right, we did report the S-TRAC results. Let me say a few words about it. Today there are not treatments approved or widely used in the adjuvant setting for RCC. Nephrectomy is the standard of care. The S-TRAC study that we did aimed to determine if adjuvant therapy with Sutent post nephrectomy would be beneficial for RCC patients with nonmetastatic disease and we did that in high risk of patient recurrence. The results were not only statistically significant, but also clinically meaningful. So if approved, Sutent would be the first product approved in the adjuvant setting for RCC.

Too early to comment on filing and approval timelines. We will update you on appropriate times, but how to think about the opportunity is basically also part of your question. The eligible population for S-TRAC of when we did the trial was stage 3 patients. And the small part of non-metastatic phase 4. The stage 3 population in the US is 5,000-6,000 per year approximately. Assuming that 80% of patients that are stage 3 are receiving nephrectomy, this will result in approximately 4,000 to 5,000 patients eligible for Sutent in the US per year, with similar numbers expected in Europe. Of course these are preliminary numbers, and in case of potential approval also will depend on the label.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Albert. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Geoff Meacham, Barclays.

GEOFF MEACHAM, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Morning. Thanks for taking the question.

I have a few on Xeljanz. When you look, growth has picked up of late and you do have ulcerative colitis and PSA as new drivers. But on the other side you have JAKs hitting the market soon and competitively and uncertainty on psoriasis. So I think my question here is where does this fit among Pfizer's priorities for commercial stage products and then do you have to press reset in the positioning here when you look at the marketplace, especially with baricitinib coming? Thanks.

IAN READ: Yes, Albert, do want to take this question, please?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, absolutely. We are very bullish on the opportunity of Xeljanz. The growth was significant, 72%. And we continue to look to expand Xeljanz geographically. As you are aware, in March the EMA accepted our application for the treatment of RA. Discussions are going well, and also we are looking forward to indications in psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis. Both of them are sizable markets, exceeding each one of them only the [7.3 billion] each one of them of market opportunity.

Your question about competition, first of all, it's difficult to make direct comparisons without head-to-head trials. Results from the initial Phase 2 studies of competitors of baricitinib, for example, appear to be consistent with JAK class. But we believe that this data continues to support the value of JAK inhibitors for the treatment of RA and as a result will grow the class. For our product we are confident on the value of Xeljanz because we have a first-in-class JAK inhibitor and the ongoing data dissemination of extensive real world experience continues and will provide significant growth.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Albert. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. A few things.

First, can you give us a little more color on China and the growth there and what are the key products and what's happening?

Second, Lyrica both first quarter and second quarter there's been a significant jump in revenues and yet you look at the prescription trends and they haven't changed much. So it is clearly pricing, and I'm just curious if there's more of the pricing that's reaching the ASP [and gross adds] are changing there in a good way for you?

And then third, can you just let us know for the rest of the year what kind of data readouts will we see for your Immuno-Oncology assets? Thanks.

JOHN YOUNG: Okay, so thanks for the question, Mark.

So China continues to perform well. Even in the face of some anticipated cost pressures, we continue to see some strong volume growth. Overall, our business grew around about 11% in the quarter. Hospira is a very small driver of that growth and to Ian's earlier comments, in China, whilst we see significant potential from the Hospira portfolio it will take time to realize that, just driven by the time of regulatory approval.

Overall, the franchises that are growing strongly in China include our cardiovascular business, which is really very well aligned to the increasing priorities of the Chinese government, our anti-infective portfolio continues to perform well. Overall we are really very positive about the opportunities for our business in China. It's very well aligned with the priorities of the Chinese government and we are working very closely with them to strengthen primary care services and management for chronic diseases, which we believe will do good things for the Chinese healthcare system and for patients and obviously are very well aligned with our portfolio, as well.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Albert, Lyrica.

ALBERT BOURLA: Lyrica is doing very well. In the US it was significant growth, but also outside the US which had the growth of this quarter. And it's a mixture of both volume, volume is growing and pricing and internationally it's mainly volume.

IAN READ: I think the pricing in the US reflects the value of the product to the patients and to the healthcare system. Data on oncology?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: I'll say a few words on data readout and oncology overall. We have readouts for non-small lung cancer for EGFR-mutant patients with dacomitinib. We have a readout that's a Phase 3 study, we have readout also for Bosulif in first-line CML, again a Phase 3 study. And in the early pipeline we'll continue to update you as the data evolves on our IO portfolio whether 4-1BB with Keytruda, which was shared at ASCO, 4-1BB now with avelumab, OX-40 with avelumab likely to come at select conferences late this year and early next year.

I should also mention that in our portfolio of targeted cancer drugs, we will share at the later part of this year encouraging data with several compounds, glasdegib, also known earlier as SMO AML; PTK7, ADC ovarian cancer; lorlatinib for ALK-positive lung cancer; and our 7775 EGFR-mutant drug for resistant lung cancer will also be shared. So it's quite a nice rich data flow in both IO and targeted cancer drugs over the period to come.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, folks, and thank you for taking the questions.

Ian, obviously 4% operational revenue growth for a company of your size is good. But as you step back and look at your innovative segment, it is quite concentrated on Prevnar, the trajectory of which is uncertain, as illustrated this quarter. And it's also quite dependent on Ibrance and Xeljanz for growth, both of which have significant competition coming. And finally you have got these patent expirations between 2020 and 2023. So how do you think about the growth prospects of the innovative segment, since that's clearly where you get most of your valuation? And could you comment on the need for business development there?

And a couple quick follow-ups, if I may. Sorry if I missed this, but what was Prevnar Adult sales by region if possible? And how should we think about Chantix as new growth trajectory? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Alex.

On the innovative business, I think it's in a very strong position right now. If you look at the underlying growth with Ibrance and Xeljanz and Chantix and Lyrica, clearly the business is functioning both well internationally and in the US. So I think there are strong short-term drivers.

I do understand that as we've signaled to you that Prevnar is likely not to be a growth contributor in the 2017 period, in the 2017-2018, but on the other hand, we will see a reduction in adult sales in the US. We will begin to see a pickup in adult sales internationally and we'll look to explore adult sales in the audience from 18 to 55 in the US, as well.

So I think you'll see very strong growth drivers in most of our major products in the innovative area with slower growth or flattish, probably in Prevnar. And then I think you look to, while we do have LOEs later on in the decade, we then been begin to see the result of all of our investment innovation. You begin to see the launch of tanezumab, or you see the launch of PCSK9, or the launch of ertugliflozin, which we believe is a best-in-class molecule, and coming into a revitalized positioning in the marketplace. We see our vaccine products coming forward with c. dificile, or perhaps later staph aureus.

So I think you see our old portfolio coming through very strongly and there I too believe that while [tobistate] is the PD-1, what is really going to differentiate the Company is the ability to play in spaces from what we would call cold tumors, which don't react to the PDL-1s and you then need to get in there a very specific sort of vaccines where we're very strong or where you need to go beyond the PDL-1 and you need to add triplets and doublets.

We have nine products in Immuno-Oncology, so I think we're going to be positioned as a company that can give you the backbone of a PDL-1 and in the same package can give you doublets and triplets and traditional therapy. And I believe this is the key to really unlocking the value of Immuno-Oncology, is this offering of capturing patients rather than capturing individual treatment arms. So I am excited about both our near-term and long-term opportunities. Thank you.

ALBERT BOURLA: The Prevnar Adult revenue by region question and Chantix maybe I can take. The adult revenues this quarter were $320 million. By region that was $276 million in the US, but as we said declined 37%. And 45 internationally that increased 41% and that trend will continue (inaudible) to increase.

On Chantix, Chantix revenues were up 24% operationally and that was driven by the US. This increase reflects the robust efficacy of Chantix compared to other (technical difficulty) and the evolving safety profile based upon the EAGLES and real-world data. EAGLES data is very important, so let me give you some insight on that.

The trial was the largest clinical trial of smoking cessation medicine. It was conducted at the request of the FDA and the EMA. The trial concluded that -- the trial did not show a significant increase in the incidence of serious neuropsychiatric events, with Chantix or bupropion compared to placebo nicotine. And in terms of efficacy, results saw the patients taking Chantix had significantly higher continuous abstinence rates than patients taking bupropion.

In Europe, the Chantix label has already been updated to remove the black triangle and in the US, as you may be aware, the FDA has scheduled a joint advisory committee meeting that will review those data. Overall, we believe that the available clinical data does not support any increased risk of serious neuropsychiatric safety events in patients attempting to quit smoking with Chantix. And obviously, the black box warning is discouraging for physicians to prescribe the product and for patients to take this medicine.

So we are really looking forward to discussing in September with the advisory committee.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Albert. We will move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions.

Just want to go back and revisit the taxation question, Ian. If we look at your current tax rate of 24%, our thoughts are that if you look at some of your losses of exclusivity and if you've done really good tax planning on a lot of your assets that lose exclusivity between now and 2020, we estimate that there is approximately about $12 billion that lose exclusivity during that time period. And when you couple that with Prevnar that is above your tax rate, at lease that's our assumption, isn't there an issue where there could be some creep upward on your overall effective tax rate? And just help us understand, I know you don't give a long-term projection, but again, with that thinking, it would seem that with those sales accounting for about one-third of your total sales, that that might influence the tax rate or bias it upwards.

Second question -- since you haven't taken off the table a large acquisition, can you remind us the qualities of the AZN acquisition that you attempted, and is that something that you might consider revisiting going forward?

And then the last question just has to do with Anacor on the crisaborole asset. You've given a long-term revenue target for that asset. Are you still comfortable with that target and by what year could you hit that target? Thanks.

IAN READ: John, first of all, I think we are very confident of the approval of our forecast we put out there. We think it is a unique product. Clearly you need a ramp up of -- normally you hit peak sales in about fifth year out. Maybe it's faster with this product, given the unmet medical need that I don't think we've given evidence on that, or given information out on that. Albert, do you have any update on that?

ALBERT BOURLA: You said it very well. We do believe what we said. But we continue assessing the product. That would be a $2 billion plus opportunity. And it's driven by really the unmet medical need. To date patients suffering from this condition have limited treatment options because approved therapies have limitations related to safety, including black box warnings. And crisaborole already used systemically in other agents has the potential to have a very favorable safety profile, which is particularly important in pediatric population, which is a very big part of the overall atopic dermatitis population.

IAN READ: So we are confident of our (inaudible) projections and we expect earlier than the normal fifth year peak sales given the unmet medical need in the marketplace.

The attraction of AZ was threefold. It was around revenue and pipeline, especially the immuno-oncology assets which are now not as relevant to us given our deal with Merck. It was around operational expense savings, and it was around financial or ability to deploy our capital globally in a tax efficient manner.

You know, I really can't comment on any appetite around any specific company. So we remain interested in doing business development deals that would achieve similar results, i.e. getting pipeline that's got growth that fills in our pipeline, operational synergy savings, and potentially tax savings. Those still remain attractive to us.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So John, the way to think about this is, in 2009 our tax rate was 30%. We've given guidance this year with a tax rate of 24%. We've actually taken that tax rate down, give or take about 1% a year since 2009.

I think we've clearly established a really good rhythm, and by the way we did that during a period of very large LOEs, and obviously going forward we'll provide guidance on the 2017 tax rate on our third-quarterly earnings call when we close out 2016 and give guidance for 2017, but please know, obviously, we do lots of tax planning. We understand what's coming at us for the next three years and our objective is to continue to have that tax rate be as effective and efficient as possible.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Manoj Garg, Healthco.

MANOJ GARG, ANALYST, HEALTHCO: Great, thank you.

I have two commercial questions and one capital allocation question for Frank. On the commercial front for Xeljanz we notice that it came off of Express Script's exclused list for 2017. Can you comment on any other notable changes for 2017?

On Ibrance, are you proactively taking any measures there with contracting to ensure leadership position when additional competitors, if and when they do emerge? And then I will follow up with my question for Frank.

IAN READ: Okay, on the commercial situation, we continue to improve our access and our tiering on Xeljanz and on Ibrance. We think we're in a very strong position and we offer good value equation to patients in managed care, and we'll continue to monitor that as and when competition comes through. And your question on the Xeljanz -- no, on the capital allocation? Can you repeat the last question you had?

ALBERT BOURLA: I think it was on Ibrance.

IAN READ: Let's go to the third question you had -- you wanted to pose to Frank.

I will come back. Sorry.

CHUCK TRIANO: We will get him off-line. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much.

I have one question for Frank and one for John. Frank, could you just talk about the standup costs preparing for separation that have been reflected in recent non-GAAP operating profit results? So more specifically, I don't know if you have the numbers, but possibly the first-half spending that was in your non-GAAP income statement in the first half of 2016?

And then for John, with respect to your internal Pfizer developed Remicade biosimilar program, could you please just update us on that and your plans for that going forward?

And actually, before I finish, going back to Frank, should we assume that whatever the standup costs or potential separation costs that are being run through the income statement this year will continue going forward, since Ian had mentioned that even if you decide not to split at the end of this year, you plan to retain that optionality. Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on the optionality costs, Dave, those costs are all in GAAP results and they are not in adjusted results, so what you referred to as non-GAAP. Let me run the numbers. For this quarter it was about $60 million. Year to date it's about $110 million. Since inception of the projects, so that goes back a couple of years, $600 million. And one key point here is, the way we program the work and therefore the resulting spending is, approximately two-thirds of the spend would take place after we make a decision.

So we have programmed it to try to preserve as much capital as we can while giving ourselves the ability to implement optionality if we decided to do so within that 12-month period following a decision. And in terms of the sunk cost, that would obviously -- that work is completed and if we were to make a decision soon or sometime in the future, that work remains completed. We don't basically lose any of the work that we've completed to date.

IAN READ: And ongoing costs to maintain the reporting we have are de minimis. John.

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks, David, for the question on our internal infliximab program. Just as a reminder, we out-licensed that as part of our agreement with the EMA when we acquired Hospira to Novartis/Sandoz. We retained the commercial rights for a number of territories, including the US and certain other markets. That program is progressing on track. We expect to have the readout from our pivotal Phase 3 trials from that program towards the end of this year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks for the question.

Just a couple of quick ones. As we think about the Anacor acquisitions, you made an unusual move and seemingly a timely one, given the increase in valuations in the biotech market. Ian, can you comment on the valuations in the biotech space as you see them today? Do you see opportunities despite the increased valuation, or do you think that enthusiasm here is starting to build in too high expectations?

And as a follow up to that, can you comment a little bit on the strategy with crisaborole? Obviously it fits well with your pediatric sales force, but this is also an entry into the dermatology market, to some degree, where you certainly are present with Enbrel internationally, but don't really have a presence in the dermatology market in the US. Just wondering if there's a broader interest in the derm space, particularly medical derm, where when we hear from dermatologists there is a significant vacuum in innovation.

And the second question, biosimilars in general, we heard from Sandoz in June that pricing is coming in quite a bit below where they had modeled the market, but penetration is also coming in higher. Can you guys talk a little bit about, John maybe you can talk a little bit about how the biosimilar market is evolving and how the uptake of Inflectra might be different from competition that you might see to Enbrel or how you might compete for pharmacy-delivered injectable products. Thanks.

IAN READ: On valuations, I think that if you go back 6-7 months they were -- I think we said we thought they were frothy on biotech. They came down and are beginning to build back up again. It all depends on each individual company, what's the product, what's the opportunity, what are you willing to pay, what can you add to it.

I don't think you can generalize on valuations across different products. Thank you for the question. On the crisaborole?

ALBERT BOURLA: First of all, you are absolutely right derm is a very important area. From immunology, we have rheumatology, dermatology, and GI and derm was what we were missing and now we're getting with crisaborole. We are building derm capabilities as we speak -- commercial capabilities. Anacor had already started building them and to continue very rapidly scaling them up. And we're going to use our own primary care footprint, because a big part of the crisaborole sales will be in primary care and of course our pediatric footprint.

JOHN YOUNG: Okay. Thanks for the question, Seamus.

As you say, we believe that there is likely to be some significant variability molecule-to-molecule and product-to-product, and indeed across markets based on a variety of factors, primarily including the number of entrants, the quality and breadth of the label, as well as the innovator reactions to biosimilar competition. That's pretty much what we are seeing in Europe. We've always said that we would expect price discounting to be somewhere in the 30% to 50% range. That pretty much is what we're seeing across Europe overall, with some variability across molecules. And we expect similar range in the US.

So overall, the market is very much behaving in line with our expectations and we've been very positive with the rate of adoption of Inflectra that we've seen in Europe and are certainly very positive about the potential opportunity that this represents in the United States, too.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, John. Operator, can we take our last question, please?

OPERATOR: David Maris, Wells Fargo.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning.

Two questions. First on the biosimilars in the new facility. When do you think that would be operational, and are there any trends that you are seeing in the marketplace that give you additional confidence in building this facility?

And the other is on the overall pricing environment. A couple of your peers have mentioned that the pricing environment in the US has more recently been difficult and they are assuming increased price pressure in the US, including increased rebating and discounting. Are you seeing that, and how do you look at that going the next year or so? Thank you.

IAN READ: I will do the pricing and then ask John to answer on the biosimilar in China. I think pricing has been competitive and difficult for many years now. Managed care is organized, the market is competitive, the product has to have value added to get access. I think Ibrance is an example of a product that has got access.

I don't perceive that in our therapies with the products we have that the pricing has become more difficult in the last year than previously. Is there political rhetoric that you would expect around the political season on pricing? Absolutely. Have there been some bad actors which have made it more difficult for the industry to get its message across? There have been.

But I still believe that this society and opinion leaders believe in an innovative industry and understand that a high-risk industry needs to have an ability to recuperate its capital and attracting capital, and so I think that overall we will continue in a competitive pricing environment, which is appropriate for society. So with that I will ask John to talk about biosimilars.

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks for the question, David.

So let me just make a comment, first of all, about the penetration of biologic medicines generally into China which, you know, is low vis-a-vis most benchmarks internationally. And so we believe that post the expiry of any relevant patents in China, a biosimilar is a significant opportunity.

Obviously, we are committed to bringing high-quality products to the market and so we are very excited with the investment that we announced in Hangzhou Economic Development Area to invest $350 million in what will be a state-of-the-art global biotechnology center. That center is expected to be completed in 2018 and we'll be working with the CFDA and relevant Chinese authorities to bring products biosimilar molecules coming out of that facility to the Chinese market as soon as possible following the completion of the plant.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John, and thanks everybody for joining us today.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Pfizer's second quarter 2016 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc | hospra : Hospira Inc
   IN
iphddd : Drug Discovery/Development | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | imedres : Medical Research Services | iphhss : Healthcare Support Services | iphlab : Medical/Clinical/Diagnostic Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160803ec82002xl
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,624 words
   PD
3 May 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's first-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, VP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you. Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's first-quarter 2016 performance and 2016 financial guidance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide R&D; Albert Bourla, President of Pfizer Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, General Counsel.

The slides that will be presented on the call can be viewed at our homepage, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance First-Quarter 2016, which is located in the For investors section in the lower right hand corner of this page. Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussion during the call will include forward-looking statements that are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.

Additional information regarding these factors is discussed under the disclosure notice section in the earnings release we issued this morning, as well as in our 2015 Annual Report on form 10-K, including in part 1 item 1A risk factors, that is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at their website, SEC.gov, and our website, Pfizer.com. Forward-looking statements during this conference call speak only as of the original date of this call, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these statements.

Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on form 8-K dated today May 3, 2016.

You may obtain a copy of the form 8-K on our website, Pfizer.com/investors. Also, any non-GAAP measures presented are not and should not be viewed as substitutes for financial measures required by US GAAP, have no standardized meaning prescribed by US GAAP, and may not be comparable to the calculations of similar measures at other companies.

We will now make prepared remarks, and then we will move to a Q&A session. With that, I will now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck, and good morning, everyone. To my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter and comment on our strategies, including expected pipeline development this year, our approach to business development in light of our decision not to move forward with Allergan, and the steps we expect to take to assess a potential split of the Company.

2016 is off to a good start, with solid performance across both the Innovative and Established businesses, notably Prevnar 13, Ibrance, Eliquis, and Chantix are performing better than we initially projected. As we referenced in our earnings release, a portion of the growth in the quarter was attributable to additional selling days compared to the year-ago quarter which will be offset in the fourth quarter from a growth perspective.

We nonetheless had a strong quarter financially even without that impact, exceeding our internal projections, and it incorporated the strong operational performance as well as the recent weakening of the dollar into our updated financial guidance for the year. And compared to the first quarter, we expect that our LOE impact from Lyrica, Rebif, Enbrel will be more pronounced in the remaining quarters of the year.

Additionally, new product launch expenses and R&D investment are also phased higher for the remainder of the year. Frank will provide more details in a few minutes.

Overall looking at the quarter, on a revenue basis Pfizer's standalone business, excluding Hospira, grew 15% operationally and 26% operationally with the inclusion of Hospira. Our Innovative business generated impressive operational revenue growth of 28%, driven by the performance of Eliquis globally, Ibrance, Prevnar 13, Lyrica, Xeljanz, Chantix, and Nexium 24-hour principally in the US.

Of particular note, Ibrance has already earned broad patient and physician acceptance. Since launching in the US last year, about 6,800 prescribers have treated approximately 28,000 women with HR-positive, HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer, and the feedback continues to be very encouraging, particularly around the efficacy and tolerability profile and impact on the overall quality of life.

Recently we announced that the confirmatory Phase 3 Paloma-2 trial for Ibrance in first-line metastatic breast cancer met its primary end points of improving progression-free survival. Detailed results will be presented at ASCO in early June.

We are also seeing continued strong operational growth from Eliquis, which is yielding increased market penetration and market share gains in the US and Japan. The contribution of Eliquis to our alliance revenue line more than doubled year over year.

For the Prevnar 13 adult indication, while there was a year-over-year growth as expected, we saw a sequential quarterly decline in revenues given the rapid penetration we achieved in the US market during 2015. The pediatric indication remains strong, and we anticipate that global revenues for the Prevnar 13 franchise in full-year 2016 will be comparable to 2015.

And we were pleased at the results from the EAGLES study, the largest global clinical trial of smoking cessation medicines, were published in the Lancet. The study was designed to compare the neuropsychiatric safety of Chantix and bupropion with placebo and nicotine patch in adult smokers with and without a history of psychiatric disorders.

The authors concluded that the study did not show a significant increase in serious neuropsychiatric events with Chantix or bupropion relative to placebo or nicotine patch. The study also found that smokers treated with Chantix had significantly higher quit rates than those treated with bupropion, nicotine patch, or placebo.

Turning now to our Established business, it grew 24% operationally, primarily to the additional revenues from legacy Hospira products. Without Hospira and the impact of foreign exchange, the business grew 1%. In particular we saw strong performance from the sterile injectables portfolio.

The addition of Hospira's leading generic injectables portfolio with Pfizer's legacy branded injectables, establishes Pfizer as the number one sterile injectables company globally. We now have one of the broadest and most diverse offerings of difficult to manufacture sterile injectable medicines, which are critically important for patients around the world.

This leading market position combined with our expanded biosimilars offering and the continued growth of Pfizer's legacy branded portfolio in emerging markets, will help us to move the Established pharmaceuticals business from a period of loss of exclusivity driven decline to potential growth. The Hospira acquisition was a clear growth driver, and the integration continues to proceed well.

We have addressed specific issues related to legacy Hospira's manufacturing, and have developed a plan to implement Pfizer quality standards at the sites. And we have dedicated resources to support the sites as they complete their transition to the Pfizer network.

Based on Hospira's excellent strategic fit with our Established business and our intense focus on integration of Hospira, we expect to exceed our original synergy targets of $800 million in annual cost savings by 2018, and now expect to achieve approximately $1 billion in cost savings.

As you are aware, in early April we decided not to move forward with that Allergan transaction due to actions of the US Treasury department. Given these actions in the current political climate, we do not see any potential for a transaction involving inversions in the near term. While the outcome was disappointing, we always view the potential Allegan transaction not as a new strategy but as a way to accelerate our existing strategy which remains unchanged.

Our strategy is anchored by several elements, namely improving the Company's revenue growth profile so that greater proportion of our earnings-per-share growth is driven by incremental revenue opportunities. Our latest product launches including Eliquis, Xalkori, Xeljanz, Ibrance, and Prevnar 13 adult have now become meaningful revenue contributors.

In addition, the FDA's decision to approve Celltrion's biosimilar infliximab across all eligible indications, marks a critical and positive step forward in helping to create a pathway for biosimilars in the US. We hold the exclusive commercialization rights to this product in the US.

While launch timing of Inflectra will ultimately depend upon a number of factors, such as marketplace dynamics and intellectual property considerations, we are continuing with the preparation of our launch plans for 2016. Our current biosimilars portfolio includes three commercialized products available in select markets outside the US; Inflectra, Nivestim, and Retacrit.

We believe that biosimilars represent an attractive revenue growth opportunity for expanding patient access to important treatments. We also see continued opportunities for our Established pharm business in emerging markets with a robust portfolio position to compete in these markets.

GAAP revenues in emerging markets increased 10% operationally this quarter, and Company-wide revenues in emerging markets increased 14% operationally. Emerging markets revenues represented nearly 20% of our total Company's revenue base.

We are also continuing to make significant progress in securing potential future growth drivers across the advancement of our pipeline. Specific examples include a planned submission for ulcerative colitis for Xeljanz, which is on track to occur in the first half of 2017; the acceptance for review of the Xeljanz EU filing with rheumatoid arthritis.

We have completed enrollment in the Bococizumab SPIRE-2 outcomes trial. While it can be hard to predict duration of trial -- of a time to events trial, we currently anticipate a potential completion of this outcome study in the second half of 2017; presentation of the Ertugliflozin Phase 3 data at the American Diabetes Association meeting in June and a potential regulatory filing in the US; the Tanezumab Phase 3 program, where we are now conducting trials for osteoarthritis, chronic lower back pain, and cancer pain indications; a potential regulatory decision in EU for Ibrance in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced metastatic breast cancer, and for Inotuzumab for adult patients who have relapsed or refractory CD22 positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

We are in discussions with the FDA on next steps to bring this important medicine to patients. Behind these assets is a strong and early mid-stage pipeline, most notably a broad portfolio of IO compounds which continued to advance.

Our Avelumab PD-L1 program with Merck KGaA has ramped up rapidly and now has 30 programs ongoing, both as monotherapy and in combination with other portfolio assets, eight of which are potentially registration enabling. We continue to expect the key advances in IO will come from novel combinations, both double and triple combination regimes and technologies that may have the potential to treat more patients with immunotherapy and ultimately transform the cancer treatment paradigm.

We have several combination studies that are already in the clinic, with our key combination assets being 4-1BB and OX40. We also have a range of immuno-oncology assets moving into the clinic, including our allogeneic CAR-T program in collaboration with Cellectis and Servier and a small molecule immunotherapy asset, IDO1, in collaboration with iTEOS and our biospecific antibody p-cadherin.

Recently we presented Phase 2 data at the AACR annual meeting showing that Ibrance was effective in slowing the multiplication of cancer cells in patients diagnosed with early-stage breast cancer who received no prior therapy. And we also expect a proof of concept readout with our next generation ALK inhibitor, lorlatinib, in ALK positive non-small cell lung cancer patients towards the end of the year.

Lorlatinib is our investigational follow-on drug to Xalkori. In neuroscience we began a Phase 2 proof of concept study this quarter for our novel dopamine modulation asset for Parkinson's disease.

If successful, this may have the potential to replace the standard of care in Parkinson's. In addition, through a collaboration with MedGenesis Therapeutix, we have a second compound being investigated in Parkinson's and expect to have a proof of concept study readout in the second half of the year.

The compound is a GDNF protein and may have the potential to provide the first disease modifying treatment that slows the progressive decline in Parkinson's patients. In vaccines we expect to have a C. difficile proof of concept readout towards the end of the year.

C. difficile is growing hard to treat infection in the hospital and long-term care setting. Currently there are no vaccines available to prevent the disease, and the infection control practices are challenging to implement. Overall, we are anticipating a steady stream of pipeline updates throughout 2016.

Our strategy will also capitalize on the opportunities and specific expertise resulting from our distinct competitive and growing businesses, namely our Innovative and Established business. Each is led by strong leaders with the experience and know-how to effectively direct and grow these organizations.

In addition to capitalizing on the strength of our pipeline, our strategy includes allocating our capital to shareholder-friendly initiatives with an eye towards sustainable value creation. This includes continuing to look for ways, other than inversions, to improve our tax rate.

It also includes pursuing business development opportunities that use our capital efficiently in ways that create meaningful shareholder value that have the potential for near-term solid value creation, that strengthen our individual businesses with capabilities in key assets, and enhance our leadership position in the most attractive core areas. As you know, we're also considering a potential separation of our Innovative and Established businesses. No decision has been made at this point and as we recently announced we plan to make an assessment of the merits of a separation by the end of 2016. By this time we will be completing our third and final year of building the required segment financials to support any split and will also be in a position to complete the necessary financial analysis needed to determine if the time is right to move forward with a split. If we determine the timing is right... then we expect to be in a position to execute a split by the end of 2017, and if we determine through our process that a split isn't appropriate, we will continue to have the flexibility to assess the option and proceed if and when we deem the time is right. Our decision framework has not changed.

It continues to be based on these four questions: Are the businesses performing well within Pfizer? Could the businesses perform well as standalone entities? Is there trap value in the combined entity? And can the trap value be unlocked efficiently?

Throughout the year we will be assessing our performance to answer each of these factors. In summary, the business is performing well, driven by a sound strategy.

The outlook for the year is strong, based on the demonstrated ability of the Innovative and Established businesses to execute against this goal. We have a healthy pipeline with strong candidates at every stage of the pipeline, and we have the financial flexibility and several options for creating short-term and long-term value for shareholders. I'll now turn it over to Frank. And thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast. As a reminder, because we completed the acquisition of Hospira on September 3, 2015, Pfizer's first-quarter 2016 financial results include three months of legacy Hospira global operations compared with first-quarter 2015 results, which do not include any legacy Hospira operations.

Now moving on to the financials. We had a good quarter. First-quarter 2016 reported revenues were approximately $13 billion and reflect year-over-year operational growth of $2.9 billion, or 26%, of which $1.2 billion, or 11%, is attributable to the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations; and approximately $900 million, or 8%, is attributable to five additional selling days in the US and four additional selling days in international markets in the first quarter of 2016 versus the year ago quarter.

Excluding legacy Hospira operations in these additional selling days, reported revenues grew $800 million, or 7% operationally, which reflects continued strong performance of Ibrance, Prevnar 13, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Lyrica, and Chantix and the 14% operational growth in emerging markets, which were partially offset by the absorption of an approximately $300 million negative operational impact due to product losses of exclusivity. With respect to selling days, I want to point out that because of our accounting calendar there was greater variability of selling days during the quarters in 2015 than there will be in 2016.

But this will not impact total number of selling days or our revenue for 2016. To illustrate, there were five more US and four more international selling days in the first quarter of 2016 compared with the year-ago quarter, and there are four fewer US and three fewer international selling days in the fourth quarter of 2016 versus the fourth quarter of 2015.

So the imbalance in selling days we saw in the first quarter will be offset in fourth quarter 2016, and they will be essentially the same number of selling days in full year 2016 as in full year 2015. Consequently, the only impact will be to the quarterly year-over-year comparisons, notably for the first and fourth quarters.

Reported revenues continued to be unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of $729 million, or 7%, including losses related to the Venezuelan bolivar. First quarter adjusted diluted EPS was $0.67 versus $0.51 in the year ago quarter.

The increase was primarily due to increased revenues, the inclusion of Hospira operations, a lower effective tax rate, and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, which declined by 78 million shares versus the year ago quarter due to our share repurchase program, which includes the impact of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in February 2015 and completed in July 2015. And by another 136 million shares associated with a partial quarter benefit from the accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in March of 2016, which will be partially offset by an aggregate operational increase on adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses of $1.1 billion or 16%, $0.07 negative impact due to foreign exchange, and continuing product losses of exclusivity.

Reported diluted EPS was $0.49 compared with $0.38 from the year-ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the favorable impact of lower charges for business and legal entity alignment activities incurred during the first quarter, which were partially offset by higher acquisition related costs, legal charges, purchase accounting adjustments, and higher asset impairment charges. Foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter reported revenues by approximately $729 million, or 7%, and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D in the aggregate by $197 million, or 3%.

As a result, foreign-exchange negatively impacted first quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.07 compared with the year-ago quarter. The results for the GIP, VOC, and GEP businesses are available and can be found at the end of the presentation that is posted on our website.

Moving on to our 2016 financial guidance. We are updating our 2016 reported revenues and adjusted diluted EPS ranges due to our strong performance to date and improved business outlook for 2016, as well as a favorable impact from foreign exchange rates since mid-January 2016.

Consequently, we raised the midpoint of our 2016 revenue guidance by $2 billion and the midpoint of our 2016 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range by $0.18. We now expect 2016 reported revenues to be in the range of $51 billion to $53 billion versus our previous expectation of $49 billion to $51 billion, and we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.38 to $2.48 versus our previous expectation of $2.20 to $2.30.

I want to punctuate what Ian said previously. Operational factors such as our strong performance to date in 2016 in addition to our improved business outlook for 2016, favorably impacted the midpoint of the reported revenue guidance range by approximately $1 billion and the adjusted diluted EPS guidance range by $0.12.

Favorable changes in foreign exchange rates since mid-January 2016 also favorably impacted the midpoint of the reported revenue guidance range by approximately $1 billion, and the adjusted diluted EPS guidance range by $0.06. Finally, given our first-quarter results and the benefit of continued support of recently launched products as well as foreign exchange, we are raising the midpoint of our adjusted SI&A guidance range by $500 million.

Consequently we now expect adjusted SI&A expenses to be in the range of $13.7 billion to $14.7 billion. Moving on to key takeaways, this quarter marks our sixth consecutive quarter of Pfizer standalone operational revenue growth, which was primarily driven by new products that are early in their life cycles such as Ibrance, Prevnar 13, Eliquis, Xeljanz, and Lyrica and additional selling days during the first quarter.

As I just mentioned, we raised the midpoints of our 2016 reported revenues and adjusted diluted EPS guidance ranges to reflect strong operational performance to date, favorable changes in foreign exchange rates, and improved business outlook for 2016. We accomplished several key R&D milestones during the first quarter.

We continued to deliver significant value to shareholders in the form of $1.9 billion in first quarter 2016 dividends, and a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in March 2016. And finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2016 and beyond. With that, I will turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian and Frank, for the prepared comments. Operator, can we please move to the question-and-answer session?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A clarification and then a two-part question. First the clarification, Frank, just want to confirm that the guidance increase for the full year has nothing to do with selling days.

And then my two-part question for John, when is the earliest biosimilar Remicade could be launched when you consider the legal and regulatory framework that exists today? And then for Ian, I'm curious to hear your thoughts on how the recent Treasury moves and your subsequent actions affect the decision to split or not to split.

If you don't see obvious trap value today based on your current structure and domicile, does your separation assessment consider the domicile and tax structure of other companies that could potentially maximize value for Pfizer's shareholders? Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the guidance, the guidance increase has nothing to do with the selling days. Think about it this way, selling days in 2016 have not changed since we issued our initial 2016 guidance on the last earnings call. So the short answer is absolutely nothing to do with our improved guidance, it's really about the operational performance, the strong operational performance and to a lesser extent foreign exchange.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Thanks for the question, Gregg. In regard to Inflectra, launch timing will ultimately depend on a number of factors including marketplace conditions, payer dynamics, expected timing for entry of other products, and intellectual property-related considerations among others.

Pursuant to the stipulation entered in recent core conference related to ongoing litigation between Hospira, Celltrion, and Janssen, Hospira agreed not to sell Inflectra in the US prior to June 29, 2016, expiration of the Crohn's patent. We are moving ahead with the preparation of our launch plans for 2016 as you heard in Ian's comments, and we can't comment further beyond those points.

IAN READ: So Gregg, the delay caused by -- the potential split caused by Allergan was just the structural work needed to be done to incorporate them in. That going away, it put us back on our original timeline as we've continued to work on that as a standalone company.

There are many factors we'll take into account in whether we want to split or not, and one of them is of course the tax structure of the two companies if they are split. And I think the Treasury action and the government's willingness to act in this area will make us think deeply about what are the alternatives to let part of this Company if possible have a different tax jurisdiction.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Can we move to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Just to continue on that thought process, do you feel like you need to strengthen the Innovative business before you would break this Company up? Or are you pretty satisfied with the way it is right now?

And if you do split up, can you give us your best estimate of what the dissynergies would be? And then secondly you mentioned on Prevnar there were government purchases. Can you quantify how much that helped in the quarter? Thanks.

IAN READ: So, Marc, the dissynergies, can we do that first?

FRANK D'AMELIO: I can do dissynergies. So Marc, on dissynergies once again assuming we were to exercise our option, and no decision has been made to date, it would be immaterial relative to overall earnings.

Couple -- current estimates are a couple of cents a share on an annualized basis. Obviously we'll fine tune that as we go forward, but current estimates are a couple of cents a share.

ALBERT BOURLA, PRESIDENT OF PFIZER INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: On the Prevnar, there was some US ordering partner this quarter. It's to the range of $40 million approximately.

IAN READ: Okay. And on the -- the businesses I think are strong enough to be standalone businesses without any further BD, but either as separate companies or as one company we will always continue to look at doing BD when it is appropriate and when it can add value. And that would be an ongoing process either pre-split or post-split, I would imagine from both company's perspectives. But always with a focus of -- strong focus on value on our part.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Can we moved to the next question please, operator?

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Good morning. I have two questions. First Ian, I have a follow up on an earlier question, and I apologize for being picky, but the fourth criteria for a split appears to have changed a bit.

So previously it was can the split be done in a tax efficient way, and today I believe you said can the split be done in an efficient way. So the word tax may have been deleted. Is this an accurate observation? The interpretation --

IAN READ: We're probably just simplifying semantics. Efficient means efficient, both operationally and from a tax perspective.

STEVE SCALA: Okay. Second question for Dr. Dolsten, it would appear that Pfizer is in the first wave of IO combos. Now considering that Pfizer once studied tremelimumab, how big a disadvantage is it to Pfizer that you do not have access to a CTLA-4? Do you view CTLA-4 as here to stay, or will Pfizer's other targets make CTLA-4 obsolete in your opinion? Thank you.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE R&D, PFIZER INC.: Thank you for the comment. I think CTLA-4 was the first of the immuno-oncology products, but as you know its utility has been somewhat limited for both melanoma and combos because of its systemic immune activation, which can be quite demanding for oncologists to manage. Although I am sure that there will be growing knowledge how to use the product.

We are much more excited about the new checkpoint augmenting compounds like 4-1BB and OX40 that seems to offer an ability to augment different parts of the immune system on top of likely PD-1 and PD-L1, but with retaining really promising tolerability. So we think that is the path to go, compounds that augment PD-1, PD-L1 but retain the stable tolerability, and that's really our focus and really no regrets.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Mikael. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAY OLSON, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: It's Jay Olson on for Jami Rubin. Thanks for taking the question. With regard to the GEP business and the four criteria that you gave to determine whether or not to separate the GEP business in particular, can you give us an idea of what metrics you plan to use to measure the performance of GEP within Pfizer and the potential performance outside of Pfizer? And then similarly what metrics will you use to determine how much trapped value there is within GEP and how efficiently that could be untrapped? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you. The metrics inside Pfizer will be of course are their growth and their operations against our budget. Outside of Pfizer we'll try and establish similar like companies.

It would be easier for the Innovative business, it's not as easy for the Established because really the Established business is a unique business including strong sterile injectables, strong biosimilar capabilities in big emerging markets, and it's not really a generic business. So it's very hard to find a comparison there. I'm sure we'll be able to find some composite.

On whether we can unleash where there's trapped value, we'll obviously use outside advisors. But one of the classic methods would simply be to look at the sum of the parts as much as we can establish by disaggregating our business the same ways we give you information to do.

So we can take those businesses and compare them to standalone businesses and see what a potential evaluation would be with the parts, and compare it to the sum. That is one way of looking at their trapped value.

Another is to look historically at what has happened to companies where they have spun but they have been spun in an unforced manner, i.e. because of management's decision and not because of activist pressure, and see what has happened to the shares of those companies subsequently. And of course we'll also have to look at what are the tax implications, which really circles back to standalone abilities if companies are disadvantaged in a more specific way because of their tax situation compared to their competitors.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you. A couple of questions, please. My understanding is that right before the Allergan deal was terminated, maybe a week before or something like that, Pfizer went through a round of layoffs of various folks at that mid-management level in anticipation of the merger. And obviously earlier in the year Geno Germano left.

So now with the deal off I'm wondering what the plan is from here in terms of filling these types of positions? Are you for example calling up folks that were going to leave and asking them to stay on for now, or what?

I'm trying to understand what sort of disruption this might have caused unexpectedly. And second question on splitting up, how much of a drive internally is there to do this?

My understanding is that because of different reasons there is an internal desire by a lot of Pfizer folks at that mid-manager level to separate the organization. I am not sure if you have town hall meetings or that sort of thing, but what is the feedback internally at the rank and file level on the Company splitting up?

IAN READ: Tim, I really am not aware of any layoffs or major changes prior to the Allergan deal. I think there were certain specific positions that may have been reorganized. But to answer your question succinctly, there is no disorganization or disruption.

I think the results of the first quarter show that, so I am not at all worried about that. And as to the internal conversations, I would say they are very robust. We have a great enterprise-wide view in the Company that stems from John's leadership in Established and his team.

And the internal decisions or internal motivations are totally directed to what we believe will be best for shareholder values, and it's a very transparent process. So I don't think there is in any way factions within the Company trying to push one way or the other. We will focus the management team on what the best decision for Pfizer's shareholders would be. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for the question. Just had two on business development. The first one is could you elaborate on your priorities and appetite at this point?

As part of that, do you have a bias when it comes to bolstering Innovative versus Established, and is there a focus on in market or near to market products versus pipeline? The section question was about the competitive environment for business development.

I know you've been very financially disciplined in the past, but it appears that we've got a pretty competitive environment out there, and some of your peers may be less focused on ROI than you are. How do you balance that opportunity to acquire attractive assets with maximizing long-term shareholder value in this environment? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Our BD approach has always been one of BD is not a strategy, it complements your ongoing strategy. So I think our BD post-Allergan remains on that same course.

We will look for assets that we think can add value to shareholders that are appropriately priced and meet our returns. We have always been very disciplined on that, although not concerned about pulling the trigger when we see those opportunities.

So I think there is after all the work we've done on the Established side there will be a tendency towards a bias for the Innovative side, and we will be biased more towards products that are near market or in market that we believe we could generate incremental growth and value by owning them, rather than looking at very early products because we think we have a very full and complete pipeline in that area. On the competitive stance, I would ask Frank to make a few comments on that.

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think the way to think about this, at least the way we think about this, is clearly there's been some changes in valuation and in sectors within the industry. So biotech, for example clearly had a change in valuation, a decrease in valuations.

Without speaking for those management teams or those boards, I think at a macro level if you were to ask do they believe that the current valuations represent the valuations of the company I would say I'm not sure. I think that they are probably in transition, that they really haven't decided that the latest valuations are indeed the valuations that are the real valuations.

What I always believe is what really will determine this is when those individual companies have to go out and have a capital market event. A capital market event will be very informing in terms of what the valuation of those companies are. And I think so over time we will see some of that thinking take place.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions, and congrats on the results. First question just on Chantix, on the EAGLES results that you got.

Is that going to help to relax the need to mention neuropsychiatric side effects on direct-to-consumer advertising ads? We're already seeing a nice uptick, but if you're able to relax that one would think that you might be able to see a faster uptick.

Second question on GEP, you've indicated that you're going to be to divesting the pumps business. Where are you in the process on identifying a financial or strategic buyer for the pumps business?

And one of your competitors announced this morning that they are going to be spinning their hemophilia business. Any thoughts within the innovation core to possibly considering spinning and/or divesting businesses that are not receiving enough R&D attention that could be better as standalone businesses out of innovation core? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. Albert, if you could talk about EAGLES or Chantix, please?

ALBERT BOURLA: Obviously we're pleased with the positive results of the EAGLES. In this monumental study the authors concluded, as Ian said, that the trial did not see a significant increase of serious neuropsychiatric adverse events with Chantix or bupropion compared to placebo and nicotine patch.

We're submitting this data to various regulatory bodies proposing revisions to the product labeling, including a request for the removal of the boxed warning. We believe that the available scientific evidence doesn't support the box warning, and we look forward to discussing this data with the FDA, EMA, and other global regulatory bodies.

IAN READ: Thank you. I would just add that also having it published in the Lancet is clearly a good medical communication and education, and will allow an appropriate dialogue. John?

JOHN YOUNG: Okay, so thanks for the question, John. Just to correct any misunderstanding that may be out there, because we have made no announcement regarding to any intention to do anything in regard to our pump or infusion systems business.

We are obviously aware of market speculation, which we do not comment on. Across all of our businesses we regulate and review our business portfolio from the perspective of maximizing value creation.

If there are any developments with our business we would certainly communicate that publicly, but as we've said previously we believe that in the Hospira acquisition we acquired what is a scarce asset that is performing well. The Management team have taken the right steps to turn the business around, and we are extremely positive about the opportunity to continue to help the infusion systems business to perform well and to return to growth.

IAN READ: Thank you. Frank, if you could talk about the hemophilia. I think it was hemophilia, yes.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Obviously, John, we are aware of the announcement this morning on the hemophilia business of one of our competitors. The way I think about this is we have done similar things in the past.

If you think about our sale of Capsugel, the sale of Nutri, the creation of Zoetis, and I think our compass on all of those transactions has been creating shareholder value. Our compass going forward will continue to be creating shareholder value.

If we think there is an opportunity to do that through any action, including something like a spin we would clearly consider that. Hopefully our actions in the past have demonstrated that we have more than a willingness to do that.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks very much for the question. I just had a couple here. First off, can you talk a little bit about the expectations for biosimilar product launches outside the US and how you see them evolving relative to Inflectra's launch, which seems to have been ahead of expectations?

The second question is relative to international Enbrel. Is Inflectra uptake and Remicade pricing a good comparison for Enbrel's performance as biosimilars hit the market in the next call it 8 to 12 months?

And then the last question is on Consumer. On the recent GlaxoSmithKline conference call when asked about interest in additional consumer assets and the possibility of interest in Pfizer's Consumer business, the current CEO suggested that they continue to evaluate all options and would welcome opportunities to participate in these larger assets.

I guess my question is how creative are you willing to get with the Consumer business in order -- and would a ViiV-like deal be ever a consideration for the Consumer business at Pfizer? Thanks

IAN READ: Thank you, Seamus. I will deal with the Consumer one first. The consumer asset in Pfizer's portfolio is a very valuable asset. It's growing well, we're continuing to add to that business, we have a great management team.

That being said, all of Pfizer is aware internally that we continually look at all of our different assets and we're always focused on creating shareholder value. To this date, to this moment I think the best way of creating shareholder value is the plan we had with Consumer growing inside Pfizer.

But as facts change we are always willing to look at those facts. If you could deal with the biosimilars, John, please.

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks for the question, Seamus. Clearly biosimilars are a very important part of the GEP growth strategy. The portfolio consists of both Pfizer, legacy Pfizer, and legacy Hospira assets, as well as some assets from external partnerships.

We remain very bullish about the opportunity. There is something in the order of $100 billion of currently patented branded biologics expected to lose patent protection in the next 5 to 10 years, and the global market for biosimilars is expected to grow from around $1 billion annually in 2013 to somewhere in the order of $17 billion to $20 billion in 2020.

In regard to our plans for our portfolio, we have overall around nine distinct biosimilar molecules in different stages of development and approval. We are going to look to optimize the launch of that portfolio on a global basis over the coming years.

IAN READ: Albert, could you discuss the impact on Enbrel?

ALBERT BOURLA: First of all on the pricing, let me say that I don't think we can draw conclusions from one biosimilar to the other. Every one has its own dynamic.

From the limited pricing for Enbrel biosimilar so far the discount levels are in line with our expectations, and we expect Enbrel's pricing to be competitive. In the general comment on the performance of biosimilars, so far Enbrel had a strong quarter of 8% up.

So basically knowing today from biosimilars, but of course it's very early. We do expect a modest uptake of biosimilars, but due to their limited long-term safety and efficacy data, at launch, we anticipate their use will be primarily in new patients.

CHUCK TRIANO: Our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi, thanks for taking the question. Ian, I appreciate your comments regarding you'll make a decision on a potential split up by the end of 2016. Can you confirm or not confirm that that decision would be a yes or no that you would split by the end of 2017, or should we be extending our timeline for the actual timing of a split?

And then number two, I know you've given this before, Frank, but can you comment roughly speaking on what you see the go forward growth rates for both the growth business and the Established products business being? I think you've given us a ballpark figure for that, I know there is no official guidance out there, but just a ballpark figure. It would be nice to get those ballparks refreshed.

And then finally you had made some commentary, Frank, around -- I think you'd made some commentary around the leverage ratio that the Allergan/Pfizer NewCo, you'd be willing to take the Allergan/Pfizer NewCo too. I was just wondering now that obviously Allergan isn't going to be part of the future, what leverage ratio you would go to maximum, and whether or not you would be willing to take out debt in order to do a large share repurchase? Thanks a lot.

IAN READ: On the timing of the split, if we made a decision to split in the fourth quarter, we believe that the transaction could be completed by the end of 2017. Obviously those timelines are subject to change if we encounter things that we don't expect in the process, but right now the planning assumption would be with a fourth-quarter decision we would be able to complete the transaction by the end of 2017. Frank, do you want to handle the other questions?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. On the going forward growth rates, I have not provided going forward growth rates other than our 2016 guidance for revenue, which we just increased by $2 billion, $1 billion of which was operational. On the leverage ratio, what I have said previously, Mark, on that is I would be willing to take it to 2.5 to 3 times.

We mentioned that as part of -- when we were going through some of the Allergan meetings. If I was willing to do it for that I'd be willing to do it for the right transaction on a going forward basis.

In terms of leveraging the balance sheet for buybacks, the way I think about this is if you go back to 2010 and if you include the $5 billion accelerated share repurchase that we added this past March, $50.7 billion of share buybacks. $50.7 billion, 1.9 billion shares excluding the 405 million shares as a result of the Zoetis exchange.

So we have done actually a massive buyback without having to borrow leveraged balance sheet which allows us to keep our powder dry if we wanted to do a different kind of a transaction. So hopefully that answers your question.

CHUCK TRIANO: And we move on to the next question.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. With respect to considerations for Established products, could you comment on how you are considering potentially shifting Viagra and Lyrica from the Innovative segment to Established products? Second, could you discuss your plans to launch a biosimilar Remicade in the US this fall and your level of conviction there?

And then third, could you help us understand how we should think about Prevnar comps going into next winter? Obviously Prevnar has been extremely strong, but that may present tough comps a year from now. So any color on your thinking there would be helpful. Thank you.

IAN READ: So we would expect that we would continue with our policy to move products like Viagra and Lyrica as they get close to be peri-LOEs from one business to the other. The exact timing we would decide, but in general you clearly want to have an Innovative company that is focused on growth and not focused on managing the end cycles of products like Lyrica and Viagra.

On the biosimilar Remicade, I really think John has made comments on that and we really can't add any more than that. I would say that we are preparing for a 2016 launch and it's dependent upon the factors that John has already mentioned. And with Albert on the Prevnar comps.

ALBERT BOURLA: Let's start with the adult. In the US we have a fifth operational growth of 28%. So apparently we continue to do an excellent job with a catch up opportunity.

To put it into context, as of the end of the quarter from the 49 million adults eligible for vaccination we have already covered 37% of them. In fact the vast majority previously vaccinated with Pneumovax.

As we have said before, while many adults remain this cohort is much more difficult to capture, and going forward we expect the US adult revenues to decline compared to last year. This will be partially offset by Europe and the rest of the world, with 63% operational growth this quarter and will continue growing strongly.

And also as both Ian and Frank said in the beginning the pediatric will have a strong performance. So as a whole the Prevnar franchise will have very comparable revenues this year compared to last year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. Thanks so much for taking my question. Two on the immuno-oncology side.

One on Avelumab, I believe merkel cell you mentioned is the lead registrational indication there. I'm wondering if you have that data in-house now, and are you still confident in getting -- being able to file that in an accelerated manner?

And if you could just clarify between yourselves and Merck KGaA how the registration process works? Who is in charge of that or is it done jointly?

And then second on the combination side, you mentioned 4-1BB and OX40 being two of the key agents as you think about combinations. Can you talk a little bit about how you prioritize those two, given it seems like several companies have OX40s in early development while 4-1BB it appears it's just you and maybe one or two other competitors?

I'm trying to get a sense of how important having something that is unique or differentiated to offer physicians and payers for combinations could be going forward when you think about how to prioritize resources behind the two different agents. Thank you.

IAN READ: I will ask Albert to talk about the merkel cell and the registration, the split of responsibilities. And then Mikael can deal with the choices we make between our unique 4-1BB and our OX40.

ALBERT BOURLA: With regards to merkel cell, first of all we're going to have some data presented at ASCO this year. It will be an oral presentation.

We have already received breakthrough designation, and we plan to file this year. With the work between us and Merck KGaA, we split in a very collaborative way.

They are doing parts of the work and we are doing other parts, and we have a very good collaboration. So we're very confident of executing on that.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Both our 4-1BB and OX40 have unique design versus major competitors. As you know, our 4-1BB has performed very well when it comes to tolerability.

And we already reported at last ASCO of augmenting effect when combined with Rituximab. And we will start reporting early signs when combined with PD-1 and PD-L1 this year.

So we do think that 4-1BB will be a key molecule as performance we start to see. We are the only company that can put the 4-1BB, OX40, PR1 in place, and we're moving swiftly to have that as an option and expect late this year or early next year to have that triple combo.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks. And can we moved to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning and thanks for taking the questions. On potential competition to Ibrance, there is increasing optimism on the Street around Lilly's CDK 46, and I guess we will see data on their 8-K. Could you discuss how you view Lilly and Novartis' CDK 46 in terms of their level of threat to Ibrance going forward?

Second, on the Xeljanz finding in the EU, what is your level of confidence that this will get through, and what do you feel you've satisfied in this submission that's previously been lacking? And then lastly in your earlier stage pipeline, any assets you would highlight that you're particularly excited about that we should be paying closer attention to?

IAN READ: Okay why don't we ask Mikael to deal with the early assets that we're excited about, and perhaps also comment on the Xeljanz submission. And then Albert may want to add something. And then Albert will deal with the Ibrance competitor situation.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Thank you. We have a very comprehensive pipeline, as you heard. Ian alluded to that in his prepared remarks.

We have 85 projects spread across Phase 1 to Phase 3 registration. And let me just mention a couple that we think will be really unique and differentiating.

We already touched base on 4-1BB and OX40 and the triple IO combo. Lorlatinib in the ALK and ROS space is generating very interesting data that we will start to share. We have a normal ADC called PTK7 that we also see some really interesting response rates.

In the immuno-inflammation field, in addition to Xeljanz we now have four different immunokines going to Phase 2 with several highly specific JAKs going to inflammatory bowel disease, dermatological inflammation, and lupus. So we will share more data around those, but I think that we really move the entire JAK field over time into new areas and with the new profiles.

Vaccines, it's our C. diff and staph aureus that we're really excited about. And Ian mentioned in his introduction that we have built some interesting assets in Parkinson with a completely novel dopamine modulator, and also have an interesting GDNF study together with MedGenesis.

And finally in rare disease I'll exemplify that we have a growing sickle-cell franchise with Rivipansel and a plan to start PD-9 as a way to prevent occurrence of difficult to treat rare disease episodes. So you can see our opportunities span multiple therapeutic areas.

Xeljanz in Europe I think is based on a very comprehensive find. We have six complete clinical trials with two open label extensions, and the ORAP program contains more than 19,000 patients here, more than 6,000 patients in long-term extension up to 8 years.

I want to remind everyone that Xeljanz has been used by more than 6,500 physicians and more than 50,000 patients in the US with a very favorable profile. And so you can see it's a completely different profile.

We have it now with the European regulatory agencies and we'll also have some specific sub-studies that they were interested on that we have executed on. So we view the dialogue with them as very constructive at this moment.

ALBERT BOURLA: Nothing to add in Xeljanz, except maybe that it's already approved in more than 45 countries. And let me move to the Ibrance and competition.

I cannot speak much about competition, that includes Lilly and Novartis, because there is limited clinical data in the public domain on their efficacy and safety. What I can do is I can speak about our product, and I can tell you we have the most advanced and broad program in the industry.

First, we are the only company with a registered product in the US and eight other countries, and an accepted filing in Europe where we may obtain registration this year. In just over a year on the market Ibrance has been prescribed by almost 7,000 physicians reaching more than 28,000 patients.

This rapid uptake is a testament to its efficacy and outstanding safety profile, with a very low rate of global 3 and 4 GI effects such as fatigue and diarrhea. Ibrance has delivered positive results across three randomized pivotal trials.

It's being studied in additional five pivotal studies in early, advanced, and recurrent breast cancer as well as 62 ongoing investigator initiated research, 38 of which are in breast cancer and 28 are in non-breast cancer. So this is what I call a clear lead.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Three questions, please. First, Ian, you touched upon triple combinations, or it may have been Mikael. There's obviously a significant cost burden attached with that.

Could you talk to the idea of where you feel specialist care pricing is going in the US and how quickly it has passed similar cost effectiveness arguments in the gridlocked House sufficient to maintain status quo? Or how do anticipate and how quickly do you anticipate change?

Second, on PBMs, again to Ian, some of your peers have identified PBMs as bad actors in the whole health care value chain given their disproportionate rebate capture. Do you believe that PBMs or other pricing transparency is a good or bad thing from an industry perspective?

And then finally for Mikael, I saw some data recently on Selzentry, your CCR5 antagonist in an immuno-oncology setting. Do you have any plans to develop that drug within that setting, or is the IP an issue?

IAN READ: So on the pricing oncology assets, clearly products are sold on their value and their value to patients, their value to society. There is also an element of total affordability.

So I think the ability of companies to have the complete regime, like in Pfizer's case the PDL-1, the OX40, the 4-1BB or a small molecule, will enable offerings to payers that I think society will find acceptable from a cost/benefit return, as distinct from looking at the complications of acquiring all of those elements separately in the marketplace. On pricing itself, I agree with you, there is a large amount of rhetoric given the election year, and there is concerns from individuals about accessing pharmaceuticals.

This is extremely complex. It is in great part due to the pressure on plans that have been transformed away from having the ability to really be an insurance company and become somewhat more of benefit administrators than insurers.

It has to do with the quality of insurance and also to do with the value of these specialty products. So I expect a robust discussion, but I expect that in the end the United States will continue to support innovation and find ways to make sure the innovation is supported and products get to patients.

And that will obviously be a robust policy discussion, but I do think in the end that is where the United States will end up in that discussion. On PBMs, in a market-based system PBMs provide value by aggregating volumes and negotiating discounts.

To the extent those discounts are passed on to the end user or the end payer, or an appropriate amount is passed on, then they're serving a valid market function. As the market changes they may have a larger or smaller role, but I think what I would emphasize is I like to see the marketplace work.

I like to see incentives in the marketplace, make sure it works, and I like to see the appropriate amount of transparency. So that's really all I can comment on that. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Mikael. Mikael's question.

IAN READ: Mikael, yes.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: I think you were likely referring to our CCR2 small molecule antagonist. And we have together with the academic collaborator really observed some interesting effects on suppressive immune cells in pancreatic cancer and some early encouraging clinical signals. So we do continue with a second study in pancreatic cancer with a CCR2. And in total we currently have eight different new medical entities in the immuno-oncology field in the clinic and expect by the end of this year to have 10 different immuno-oncology compounds in the clinic.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Geoff Meacham, Barclays.

GEOFF MEACHAM, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, thanks for taking the question. Just a couple, Ian, just to continue the strategy discussion, I want to get a sense as to what at this point you characterize as the top one or two priorities post Allergan when you look at things like tax rate, cash flow, expected multiple growth rates.

And then just on the pipeline front, a few for Ibrance. The adjuvant trials really aren't until much later, say 2020, but how do you see the role of CDK46 in this?

And does your long-term thinking assume success here? And then for Boco and PCSK9, clearly outcomes data are going to dictate the share, but how much of a role do you think that imaging plays throughout this and product differentiation? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you. The priorities post Allergan continue to be our four strategies, which is to continue to show excellence in our innovative core and bring forward innovative products. I think you've seen us do that.

Continue to drive the growth rates of our inline and newly launched products, which you can see are happening. Eliquis is performing extremely well with an LOE in the United States out I think in 2019. Sorry, Lyrica that is. Sorry, Lyrica.

Eliquis doing very well, Xeljanz is doing well. So I think the priorities are continue to ensure that our science comes to market; grow our inline products, which I think we're doing well; execute on capital discipline, which we continue to do; and in our Established products business it's to roll out successfully the biosimilar strategy to continue to utilize and maximize the value of our sterile injectables around the world.

So frankly, I think there's lots to do in that area. We'll continue to look at our tax situation. We have a very good tax group, Frank and his team are very good at looking at how to improve that.

It continues to be an area of focus. Vis a vis Ibrance, I agree with you that the trials are on the timeline you talk about, but that's the nature of the trials in oncology.

And the reality is we have already started those trials and are well ahead of any of our competition. So it's a matter of a lead established in the marketplace. So I'm very optimistic about the long-term growth rates of Ibrance, both in the indications it has now and the indications to come as we go earlier in the advance -- the breast cancer.

And also outside of breast cancer I think we have a lot of work going on. And then you asked -- the last question was?

CHUCK TRIANO: Boco. PCSK9 and Boco.

IAN READ: I have always thought, and we discussed this, that Boco should -- these products should only have been launched when you have outcomes data. I've always felt, and I think if you go back in our transcripts we've always said that on LDL alone it will be difficult to convince society to pay what's necessary, and you really need to include along with LDL the outcome.

Clearly outcomes is important. Imaging has been used previously with lipid agents, it doesn't really move the needle. What moves the needle is the large prospective trials which show that outcomes are changed.

And an image just doesn't do the same as that data. So I look forward to that class expanding when we have the outcomes data and we have the right value equation for society.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Manoj Garg, Healthco.

MANOJ GARG, ANALYST, ABR-HEALTHCO: Thanks for taking the questions. One for Albert on Ibrance and then one for Frank on financials. When would you expect submitting the PALOMA-2 data to FDA?

And then maybe you can talk about what that would do to the intent to treat population? And then just a follow up there.

What is the general timing in Europe on approval? And then for Frank, on the $500 million in increase in SI&A, was that driven largely by FX, or is there some additional investment there?

ALBERT BOURLA: Thank you. As you know we announced positive top line results from PALOMA-2. We will present details at ASCO with an oral presentation. It will be a late breaker.

Now this trial provides additional confirmatory evidence on the benefits of Ibrance for breast cancer patients. These will add to the momentum of this. Also it will be used for regulatory filings.

It is a requirement from FDA so that we can convert the accelerated approval to a permanent approval, and we plan to file -- we are in discussions now with the FDA. In EU we have already filed, and have an accepted filing based on PALOMA-1 and 3.

But also we have submitted already PALOMA-2 over there as additional supporting data. And as we said before, we expect to receive Ibrance approval in the US as early as this year if eventually -- excuse me, in Europe as early as this year if we have a positive opinion from European authorities.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And on the SI&A and the impact of FX, so we took it up $500 million. Midpoint went up $500 million. Approximately half of that is due to foreign exchange, approximately half of it is due to operations including increased investment in new and certain inline products.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Richard Purkiss, Piper Jaffray.

RICHARD PURKISS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Thanks, I've got three questions. Firstly for Albert, can you update us with your thoughts on how Prevnar penetration into the adult indication is like to play out over the next 12 months in Europe?

Secondly also for Albert, can you give us an update on how well the adjuvant breast cancer studies are enrolling? And then thirdly perhaps for Mikael, also on Ibrance, whether you see it largely restricted to the ER post inverted negative breast cancer setting, or whether its mechanism ultimately gets used for other metastatic tumors too? Thanks.

ALBERT BOURLA: Let me start with Europe. As I said, in Europe we have 63% operational growth. And this will continue. We will have strong growing in Europe.

The demographics are very favorable there. We have a larger eligible population. The price per dose is less than in the US, and that's another factor.

We need to obtain a recommendation, and this is a process that in Europe can take -- not recommendation I mean reimbursement, can be faced over two years because it's happening country by country. In some cases within the same country it's happening district by district.

So we are working very intensively on that because we see the opportunity as a major one. Moving to how we're doing with our expansion into other breast cancer segments, and particularly into the adjuvant setting, actually we have two studies in the adjuvant setting.

That's PENELOPE B; this is for high risk early breast cancer, and we have PALLAS for intermediate risk early breast cancer. And they are recruiting very nicely right now. I need to also emphasize that we have another one which in -- PALLET is a collaborative study, but it is in the neo-adjuvant setting in cooperation with Washington University.

IAN READ: Mikael.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: We are increasingly excited as we have learned more about Ibrance, how significant we can see opportunity to expand utility or potential of that drawing. So we have studies ongoing, and we will likely see some data this year or next year in head and neck cancer in combination with Erbitux, Pfizer sponsored, and collaborative studies, in mantle cell lymphoma with Ibrutinib, and in pancreatic cancer in combination with Abraxane in 2017.

And more recently we are also studying uniform mutant lung cancer combining Ibrance with our own 7775 ED4 inhibitor. Also within breast cancer we see opportunities and have initiated triple therapy based on Ibrance, as well as we are looking at the novel segment of breast cancer that may go from ER into double positive segments. So substantial opportunities, and of course our enthusiasm growing as we see how well Ibrance is performing, the patient experience is so good, and our studies -- confirmatory studies deliver real encouraging data.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question please.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, folks, thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the quarter. Three questions if I may. Ian, on business development all things being equal, would you prefer ex-US assets so that you can deploy your capital more efficiently?

Second, apologies if I missed this, but can you tell us what Prevnar adult sales were in the quarter ex-US if possible? And then finally on the Hospira business, it was a little bit lower than we expected despite the higher selling days.

Could you comment on that? And is it because your own sterile injectable business is doing better? Thank you.

IAN READ: On the question of US or non-US, as I say, we are value investors. So it comes down to what is the return on assets and what is the MPV?

And of course in that would be included the different costs of doing our onshore or offshore deal. So we'd make that decision based on that. Next I think it's Mikael, sorry, Albert.

ALBERT BOURLA: The Prevnar adult. The global sales were $439 million, so that was 31% up. But most of that was in US. $390 million in the US and $47 million were internationally. International, as I said, grew 63%.

IAN READ: And the last question?

JOHN YOUNG: Overall we were very positive about the performance of the Hospira business. We saw positive performance across all of our segments this quarter, both sterile injectables, biosimilars, and the infusion systems business continues to return to growth. So overall in addition with the ongoing efforts to integrate the two companies that are ongoing but proceeding very well and in line with our plans, we remain very positive about the performance that we're seeing from the legacy Hospira business.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And we increased our synergy target from $800 million to $1 billion.

CHUCK TRIANO: Operator, can we take our last question, please?

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Can you help us think about the potential investor positioning for GEP to help us think about valuations? You say there aren't good comps out there, but I would tend to think of this as perhaps a slower-growing part of business, but perhaps one that could sustain a greater dividend than the rest of the business over time.

So just help us think is that the investor positioning of that business? Secondly on Ibrance, I wonder if you could update us for the US?

What is the duration of therapy that you are seeing, and what is the market share in your label population? And then last question, have you prioritized any specific tumor types or indications yet for either 4-1BB or OX40 in terms of pivotal planning? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. On GEP, I have always used the analogy although it's a pharmaceutical business that really given it's in sterile injectables which we sell on quality and barriers to entry, and given it's biosimilars which also will be eventually sold on the quality of the manufacturer and the data we have, and then the emerging markets which is sold on brands and quality, that it sort of looks like a consumer business with just a touch more risk than a normal consumer business.

So perhaps some nice comparables for PEs really ought to be the consumer-like business. Now you may or may not agree with that, but it is slower growing, growing with GDP just like consumer businesses do, being sold on brands, and then a little more affected because it does have pricing risks and some development risks. That's how I would look at it.

ALBERT BOURLA: The first line market share is now 38%. That's number one. We have achieved leadership and to have surpassed AI monotherapy.

The second and third line market share are 26% and 14% respectively. When it comes to duration of treatment, it's too early to assess because as you know the product has been launched a year approximately ago, and PFS duration from the data is around 20 months since PALOMA-2. So we need some time to assess what will be the actual duration period.

IAN READ: Thank you.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: On one hand with 4-1BB, we presented last year at ASCO, and we will provide update during this year. 4-1BB with Rituximab and lymphoma, that had very promising response rate in refectory -- Rituximab patients, about 35%. We have expanded that study, it looks certainly very promising so that could be one opportunity for moving 4-1BB fast forward. 4-1BB and OX40 are expressed in many tumors in the immune infiltrating cells. So we will have a broad ambitious program where we see opportunity for these across many different solid tumors and some blood related cancers.

ALBERT BOURLA: Let me make a correction. I think I said 20 months in PALOMA-2. It is 20 months in PALOMA-1. We haven't disclosed the duration treatment of PALOMA-2. We'll do that at ASCO.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you everybody for your attention today.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So long everybody.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude Pfizer's first-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc | hospra : Hospira Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | imedres : Medical Research Services | iphhss : Healthcare Support Services | iphlab : Medical/Clinical/Diagnostic Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160504ec53003eb
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
13,232 words
   PD
2 February 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SENIOR VP OF IR, PFIZER INC: Good morning. And thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth quarter and full year 2015 performance, as well as 2016 financial guidance. I'm joined today as usual, by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, General Counsel. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Fourth Quarter 2015 which is located in the For Investors section in the lower right hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussion during the call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as on our reports in Forms 10-Qn and 8-K. The discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today.

Also, today's call is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy securities of Pfizer or Allergan. We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a question and answer session. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Chuck. And good morning, everyone. We finished 2015 with strong financial and operational performance. For the full year, we exceeded our 2015 revenue guidance and met the top end of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance. And, we achieved our first year of operational revenue growth in five years. Frank will take you through the numbers. Before he does, I have a few brief comments about what is driving our performance, some thoughts regarding where we expect to see pipeline advancements during the year, and I'll close with a few comments about Allergan.

Throughout the year, and especially in the fourth quarter, our business executed flawlessly, despite a challenging operational environment. We entered 2015 with solid momentum in both developed and emerging markets. Specifically, in developed markets during the year, we gained incremental market penetration driven by continued success of products that are early in their life cycles, including, Prevnar 13 in adults, Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz. And we saw steady growth from key inline products in 2015. Specifically, Lyrica in markets where it remains patent protected.

During the year in emerging markets, we saw operational revenue growth primarily due to the performance of Prevnar, Lipitor and Enbrel, as well as from the addition of legacy Hospira products. The integration of the Hospira business into Pfizer Global Established Pharma business is on track. And we look forward to this business being an attractive potential growth driver. This acquisition is indeed proving to be an excellent strategic fit, and we're seeing the expected value contribution to our GEP business that we anticipated.

Frank will speak to our 2016 guidance in a moment. We expect to deliver operational revenue growth in 2016. Our key growth drivers will continue to be Ibrance, Eliquis and Xeljanz. And we believe that Prevnar Adult global revenues will be comparable to the strong results we achieved in 2015. Additionally, we believe our near term pipeline will help accelerate this ongoing growth forward. In looking at the year ahead, we expect our businesses will continue to execute well. They are competitively positioned within their markets, and are performing strongly against their competitive set.

Regarding the pipeline, we anticipate advancing many of our Phase 3 programs during the year. For bococizumab we reported today the first of our six Phase 3 efficacy studies achieved its primary end point. And we expect read outs of the remaining five bococizumab lipid lowering studies to read out during 2016. For ertuglifozin, this year we and our partners Merck, will begin to deliver results from our comprehensive Phase 3 clinical program. In 2016, the alliance expects to submit applications for regulatory approval in the US for both monotherapy, and two fixed-dose combination tablets, using data from eight clinical trials.

For dacomitinib, we expect results in the second half of the year for a Phase 3 study in first-line EGFR mutant non-small cell lung cancer and will discuss our regulatory strategy with the FDA. For Xeljanz, in the first half of this year, we expect top-line results for our Phase 3 program in psoriatic arthritis. We believe Xeljanz can potentially fill a significant unmet need in the psoriatic arthritis market where non-biologic DMARDS do not have proven success. And, where there are currently few alternatives for patients who have inadequate responses to anti-TNF therapy. In addition, in the first half of the year, we anticipate a decision from the FDA for our once-a-day daily Xeljanz formulation for rheumatoid arthritis. And we remain on track to refile our application for RA in the EU.

For Ibrance, we expect to see the top-line PALOMA-2 study results in first-line advanced breast cancer in combination with letrozole. And we have an April PDUFA date for second and third line treatment for advanced breast cancer based on the PALOMA-3 data. We could also see a regulatory decision for Ibrance in the EU by year-end.

Additionally, in the Oncology business, we have a PDUFA date this year in the US for Xalkori in ROS-1 non-small cell lung cancer. And we expect to file for approval of inotuzumab for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in the US. And in Immuno-Oncology, we now have a broad portfolio of compounds that we believe has the potential to support the development of a strong, deep, competitive market position. We now have five Immuno-oncology assets in the clinic, and expect to have up to ten in the clinic by the end of 2016.

As a result of our partnership with Merck KGaA, as of the end of 2015, we had 28 ongoing Clinical Development programs for avelumab, with seven of them being pivotal, registrational studies. We anticipate some of these studies will give us potential registrations in areas like Merkel Cell, ovarian, bladder, gastric, and lung cancer. Of these seven studies, we expect to present data in Merkel Cell this year and to see data from the other tumor types in the following two years. And, we continue to believe that the winners in this space will be those that have a breadth of portfolio assets to support rational combinations. We have a range of assets to combine with avelumab when compared to other companies' assets and we've already initiated six combination studies with avelumab.

In 2016, we expect to see data from: 4-1BB in combination with Keytruda, and in combination with avelumab in various tumors; 4-1BB, in combination with rituximab in lymphoma; a combination of lorlatinib, our next-generation ALK-inhibitor with avelumab in ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer; and data from Inlyta with avelumab in renal cell carcinoma. Finally, we may see data from OX-40 as a single agent this year. Taking up all of this into account, we believe we are well on our way to being a leading player in this space.

And now, a few comments about our proposed combination with Allergan. We're excited about bringing two great companies together that have a strong strategic fit. The transaction is about accelerating growth potential in our innovative businesses and strengthening our established business and more efficiently allocating our capital around the world. We are confident that we are taking the appropriate steps so that we can achieve the key milestones needed to complete the transaction, and continue to expect close in the second half of 2016.

Since the announcement, we have been working closely with Brent Saunders and his team at Allergan and have been delighted by the engagement and rapport that is occurring. We see a number of potential opportunities after closing, as we continue to learn more about each other's portfolio. For example, we see complementarity in inflammation and gastroenterology. And we will have a broader presence in cardiovascular disease with Eliquis and Bystolic. In neuroscience, Allergan's work in Alzheimer's, schizophrenia and major depressive orders will be highly complementary to Pfizer's promising early work in such areas as Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and Duchenne's muscular dystrophy. When you look out over the next few years, we expect both companies will contribute several potential new drugs to launch.

We also continue to be excited about the international potential. And by coming together, we are enhancing category leadership throughout our complementary in-line portfolio, and a combined pipeline with great late-stage and mid-stage assets across each of our key therapeutic areas. Both companies bring a great deal of scientific and product expertise to the proposed combination, and a shared philosophy in our approach to research and development. Upon the close of transaction, the combined Company will be an influential player in the industry, with a competitive product portfolio with several leadership positions, robust pipeline, compelling capital structure and financial position, and aligned cultures that are based on ownership and entrepreneurial spirit, creating shareholder value and meeting patients' needs.

This combination is about investing in our business. It's about accelerating our existing strategy while preserving our options and spitting the Company into an innovative business and an established business if we determine that is the best way to unlock the most value for our shareholders. By the end of the current quarter, our integration team will be fully engaged and we anticipate announcing post-closing leadership positions. Throughout the year, we will continue to keep you updated on our progress.

In summary we're looking at year ahead, we have a sound strategy and a strong business. Our outlook and financial guidance for the year takes into account the benefit of anticipated positive organic growth in key products, as well as the impact from foreign exchange. We have a solid portfolio of market leading in-line products, a healthy pipeline. We expect to further strengthen the growth potential of the business with the pending addition of Allergan. We will continue to have the means by which we can create value for our shareholders and bring innovative medicine to patients by producing expected top-line growth, progressing key pipeline assets, pursuing strategic business development, and returning capital to shareholders through dividends and buybacks. Now I'll turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter, and our 2016 financial guidance.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC: Thank, Ian. Good day everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. As a reminder, because we completed the acquisition of Hospira on September 3, 2015, Pfizer's full year financial results for the year ended December 31, 2015 include four months of legacy Hospira US operations, and three months of legacy Hospira international operations. Financial results for the fourth quarter 2015 include three months of legacy Hospira global operations. By comparison, financial results for full year and fourth quarter 2014 do not include any contribution from legacy Hospira operations. Now moving on to the financials.

Fourth quarter 2015 reported revenues were approximately $14 billion, and reflect year-over-year operational growth of $1.9 billion or 14% mainly driven by the addition of legacy Hospira operations, the continued strong performance of products that are early in their life cycles, such as Prevnar 13 Adult, Ibrance, Eliquis and Xeljanz. Lyrica primarily in the US, and 5% operational growth in emerging markets, mainly from legacy Hospira operations, Prevnar 13, and certain other products.

Reported revenues continued to be unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of $934 million or 7%. Excluding the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations of $1.2 billion, the negative impact of foreign exchange, and to a much lesser extent, the inclusion of $35 million of revenues, associated with vaccines acquired from Baxter, Pfizer's standalone achieved operational growth of $646 million or 5%, while at the same time, absorbing a $720 million negative operational impact from product losses of exclusivity.

Fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS was $0.53, versus $0.54 in the year-ago quarter. The decrease is primarily due to an aggregate operational increase, and adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses of $1.8 billion or 21%, $0.07 due to foreign exchange, and the continued product losses of exclusivity in certain geographies. These were partially offset by revenue growth of certain new, in line and acquired products, a lower effective tax rate, and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, which declined by 125 million shares versus the year-ago quarter, due to our share repurchase program, which includes the impact of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement, executed in February 2015 and completed in July.

Reported diluted EPS was $0.10, compared with $0.19 in the year-ago quarter, due to the previously-mentioned factors and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency losses related to Venezuela, increased purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition related cost, restructuring charges, and asset impairment charges versus the prior-year quarter, and non-recurring charges related to pension settlements, which were partially offset by the non-recurrence of a charge associated with the global strategic alliance formed with Merck KGaA in November 2014 to jointly develop and commercialize avelumab, lower charges for certain legal matters, and a lower effective tax rate.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter reported revenues by approximately $934 million or 7% and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses in the aggregate by $435 million or 5%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.07, compared with the year ago quarter.

Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments. In the fourth quarter, Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 10% operationally year-over-year, due to the strong performance of recently launched products, including Eliquis globally, and Xeljanz in the US, and the strong performance of Lyrica in the US and Japan. Income before taxes increased 17% operationally due to the increase in revenues, and a 5% operational decrease in cost of sales. Cost of sales as a percentage of revenue decreased 1.7 percentage points operationally because of lower royalty expenses and increased alliance revenues with no associated cost of sales. IBT was unfavorably impacted by a 4% operational increase and SI&A expenses as a result of additional investment at Eliquis, Xeljanz and Chantix, and 11% operational increase in R&D reflecting investments in our late stage pipeline, primarily for bococizumab and tanezumab.

Fourth quarter VOC revenues increased 38% operationally reflecting operational revenue growth in each business. Global vaccine revenues grew 53% operationally, driven by 102% increase of Prevnar 13 US revenues due to the strong uptake among adults, Global Oncology revenues grew 61% operationally, driven by Ibrance in the US, and to a lesser extent by Sutent and Xalkori globally. And Consumer Healthcare revenues grew 4% operationally, due to Nexium 24 hour in the US. Income before taxes increased 33% operationally, mainly due to increased revenues and an associated improvement in gross margin, which were partially offset by a 66% operational increase in SI&A expenses, as a result of higher promotional expenses in the US for newly launched Consumer Healthcare products, Ibrance and Prevnar 13 Adult. And the 46% operational increase in R&D expenses, due to increased costs associated with our Oncology programs, primarily our alliance with Merck KGaA and Ibrance.

Fourth quarter Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues increased 5% operationally, mainly due to the previously mentioned inclusion of legacy Hospira revenues contributing $1.2 billion, which was partially offset by the loss of exclusivity and generic competition for Celebrex in the US, and certain other developed markets. Lyrica in most developed markets in Europe and Zyvox in the US. Emerging market revenues were flat operationally, which reflected the positive impact of the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations and continued strong growth in China, offset by declines in certain markets in the Middle East.

Income before taxes declined 12% operationally, reflecting the unfavorable impact of a 4.7 percentage point operational increase, the cost of sales as a percentage of revenues due to the inclusion of Hospira operations, and the impact of losses of exclusivity. A 24% operational increase in SI&A expenses, driven in part by the addition of Hospira operations, and the 53% operational increase in R&D expenses, due to increased legacy Hospira development programs.

We exceeded the top of our guidance range expectations for 2015 reported revenues by approximately $400 million. Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues was 18.5% versus 18.7% at the low end of our guidance range due to increased alliance revenues and sales volumes. And we exceeded our expectation for our effective tax rate on adjusted income as a result of a favorable change in our jurisdictional mix of earnings. We met our expectations for adjusted R&D expenses and achieved the top end of our adjusted diluted EPS. Adjusted SI&A expenses of $14.3 billion were higher than our guidance range, due to increased expenses for recently launched products such as Prevnar 13 Adult and Ibrance, other in-line products, and certain Consumer Healthcare brands.

We recorded adjusted other income of $409 million versus our expectation of approximately $500 million. Finally, reported diluted EPS was $1.24, versus our expected range of $1.37 to $1.43, mainly as a result of increased purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition related cost and restructuring charges primarily related to the acquisition of Hospira, the negative impact of foreign currency losses related to Venezuela, and non-recurring charges related to pension settlements.

Now, I'd like to walk you through the 2016 guidance ranges for reported revenues, reported diluted EPS, and adjusted diluted EPS relative to our 2015 actual results. First it's important to note that our 2016 financial guidance excludes the impact of our pending combination with Allergan. Our 2016 reported revenue guidance range reflects anticipated strong growth of certain new, in-line, and acquired products that is partially offset by an anticipated $2.3 billion negative impact due to continuing product losses of exclusivity. I want to point out that within this range, and consistent with our previous comments, we expect full year Prevnar 13 Adult global revenues to be comparable with its full-year 2015 global revenue level.

We expect adverse changes in foreign exchange based on mid-January 2016 rates relative to the US dollar, compared with actual foreign exchange rates from 2015 to have an additional $2.3 billion negative impact on reported revenues, including an estimated $800 million negative currency impact related to Venezuela. Consequently, we expect 2016 reported revenues to be in the range of $49 billion to $51 billion. Reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS guidance also include the negative impact from product losses of exclusivity, as well as an expected $0.09 negative impact from foreign exchange rates and the $0.07 negative currency impact related to Venezuela. As a result, we expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.54 to $1.67 and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.30.

In addition, I want to remind everyone that guidance ranges for both reported and adjusted diluted EPS incorporate $5 billion of anticipated share repurchases in 2016, which consist of our previously announced intention to execute a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program in the first half of 2016. These repurchases are expected to more than offset the potential dilution related to employee compensation programs. In summary, if you exclude anticipated foreign exchange impacts, including the negative currency impact related to Venezuela, full-year 2016 revenue and adjusted EPS guidance midpoints, are 7% and 10% greater than actual full-year 2015 levels, respectively. The remaining elements of our 2016 financial guidance are set forth on this chart.

Now, moving on to key take-aways. We had a very strong financial performance in 2015 and we achieved operational revenue growth every quarter, including 14% operational growth in the fourth quarter. For the full year 2015, we achieved 6% operational revenue growth that was mainly driven by new products that are early in their life cycles. And we achieved this growth despite a $3.2 billion negative impact from product losses of exclusivity. Our full year 2016 reported revenue guidance range of $49 billion to $51 billion absorbs a $4.6 billion combined negative impact of product losses of exclusivity, adverse changes in foreign exchange rates, and the negative currency impact related to Venezuela. And the adjusted diluted EPS guidance range includes an anticipated $0.16 negative impact from foreign exchange, including Venezuela.

We announced our proposed combination with Allergan and continue to expect the transaction to close the second half of 2016 and we continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. In 2015, we returned $13.1 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. And we expect to execute a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program in the first half of 2016. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2016 and beyond. Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks Ian and Frank. Operator, can we please poll for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from Colin Bristow from Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Good morning and congrats on the solid finish to the year. So, a couple of product specific questions if I may.

On the Prevnar franchise, you posted strong Q4 numbers. Could you just talk about your expectations for the trajectory going forward? On Ibrance there's been a lot of discussion around Abemaciclib or Lilly's Abemaciclib and the potential there for a threat to Ibrance. What's your view here?

And then just lastly on biosimilars? Can you update us on the status of your biosimilar candidates? And when we should expect any data read outs, thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you Colin, I'll ask Albert to manage the Prevnar and Ibrance and then pass it over to John for biosimilars.

ALBERT BOURLA, GROUP PRESIDENT, VACCINES, ONCOLOGY & CONSUMER HEALTHCARE, PFIZER INC: Thank you very much for the question, Colin. Let me provide some insight to help you understand the situation moving forward.

In the years, obviously, we have done an excellent job with the catch up opportunity. We have achieved 86% market sale, 92% at retailers, we have 90% awareness of the recommendation of healthcare practitioners. And as a result, of the 45 million adults eligible at the time of recommendation for vaccination, we have already captured about a third of them.

Now, while many adults remain, this cohort is more difficult to capture, as the low hanging fruit is gone. It will require more innovative strategies that we all have in place. But even if we assume a similar or higher penetration rate this year, it will be on a much smaller pool of adults.

However, we expect this will be mitigated by Europe, which has a very different growth profile. Even with prices lower than US, the demographics are very favorable, with a much larger eligible population. And we have already received pneumonia in our label in 2015. And we are working to obtain broad recommendations and following that, reimbursement from the authorities.

Now, this will be faced likely over two years window period because in Europe this is done country by country, and sometimes region by region within the same country. But all-in all, we expect very strong growth in Europe next year.

Now, let me move on Ibrance and to your question about competition or particularly Lilly's drug. Look, Lilly's drug, while the same class, is for any indication. The refractory patient population for which they have received Breakthrough Designation, is a very small population with few options available. In fact, the average refractory patient undergoes seven lines of treatment, so it's in high need.

Now speaking generally, on competition. There is only limited clinical data on the public domain. And we need to see more efficacy and safety data to make comparisons.

What I can tell you is about our strategic position. We are the only company with a registered product in the US, and six other countries, and an accepted filing in Europe, where we may obtain registration as early as next year. We have very good clinical experience with the product.

Ibrance has been prescribed by 5,000 physicians and more than 20,000 patients. And so far, feedback is very positive, particularly, on patients' quality of life.

We are having a very heavy clinical program. We have two pivotal studies in first-line metastatic breast cancer. Two studies in recurring metastatic breast cancer. And three in early breast cancer, PENELOPE-B, PALLAS and PALLET.

Ibrance is part of 88 investigational initiated trials. Approximately 15 breast cancer and 30 in other tumor types. So, as you can see we are investing heavily to stay ahead of the competition.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert. I think just on Ibrance, you mentioned next year for Europe. You meant this year late this year we may be able to get registration.

ALBERT BOURLA: Correct, in 2016 I mean. I apologize.

IAN READ: Go ahead.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC: Okay, so thanks for the question on biosimilars Colin. So then, we're obviously very excited to be able to bring together the combination of Hospira's current in-line biosimilars, which are already in the market. So we have three assets, as you know which are already in the market in Europe. Nivestim, Retacrit, and Inflectra. And to bring that together, along with the legacy Pfizer monoclonal antibody pipeline, plus some additional assets that Hospira have.

So in total, when you look at the pipeline, we have nine distinct biosimilar molecules in different stages of development: infliximab outside of the EU, adalimumab, trastuzumab, bevacizumab, rituximab, pegfilgrastim, ranibizumab, denosumab, uztekumimab. So overall, we have a very strong pipeline.

A number of those assets are in Phase 3, late phase development. And the first data set that you'd be seeing from our Phase 3 studies, would come from the legacy Pfizer infliximab program where we would expect to produce data from our Phase 3 towards the end of this year.

COLIN BRISTOW: Thank you, John.

IAN READ: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

IAN READ: Jami? Okay Jami, we may come back if we can correct the technical issues. If not let's go to Alex.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning and thank you for taking the question. Frank, your gross margin for 2016 is better than we expected considering you're integrating a lower margin business in Hospira and losing exclusivity on some high margin products.

Can you help us understand what's driving that, and should we expect additional margin expansion going forward given that your innovative business is growing at a faster rate? And then, on Hospira's contribution this quarter, it doesn't seem to reflect much revenue synergies. Obviously it's too early, but how should we think about Hospira's contribution next year and also revenue synergies going forward? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So Alex on the gross margin, let me run the numbers and then I'll answer the question.

So we ended the full year at 18.5% in terms of cost of sales. So I'll do the cost of sales, the reciprocal obviously, is gross margin. We guided for next year cost of sales number of 21% to 22%. So, if you take the mid point of that 21% to 22%, just to make the math easy, that's 21.5% from our 18.5%. That's at 3%, 300 basis point increase in our cost of sales as a percentage of revenue.

By the way, that's being driven by a few factors, but one of which clearly is Hospira. In terms of, I think your question, which is why was it even more? I think the answer is our ongoing productivity and cost reduction initiatives. When you think about our factories, our manufacturing capabilities, we really manage that from a cost perspective.

First of all, we focus that on quality, service, and cost. If you think about that as a triangle, quality is at the top of the triangle. But there's four major buckets right?

There's the number of facilities, there's the numerous quality initiatives we have within each facility, there's the purchasing that we can get from a leverage perspective. And finally, there's the center cost that resides outside of the factories. We manage all of those very aggressively, to basically manage our cost structure and manufacturing. But that gives you a feel for what the numbers were, and why they are what they are.

JOHN YOUNG: So thanks, Alex. So obviously, again we're very excited by the opportunities afforded us by the combination of our two businesses. And, I think I've talked about biosimilars already, and the opportunities we see in that marketplace. So let me just touch briefly on sterile injectables.

It's a large growing market. It's somewhere between $50 billion to $70 billion currently globally. And one of the features of that market is it's very concentrated, particularly in the US, but also in a few ex-US markets, such as Western Europe and particularly China.

So one of the things that we are very focused on is going to be revenue synergy. We obviously have a strong commercial presence in China. And also in the hospital segment in developed Europe and emerging Europe.

So essentially, the lag time since September, when we closed this transaction, we've been focused on making sure that we have our blocking and tackling in place. To be very systematic with our highest value molecules that really meet market needs most appropriately. To be very focused on registering and bringing those molecules to market.

So in the biggest opportunity that we have in China, that is going to take time. As you are very well aware, drug lag in China is a significant issue, but we're very encouraged by the progress that the CFDA are making to accelerate access to important new medicines in China. But that will take time. But we do see opportunities both in the short-term, as well as medium long term to deliver significant growth ex-US through the sterile injectable business and the combination of Hospira's portfolio into our commercial footprint.

CHUCK TRIANO: Operator let's see if we can get Jami Rubin back.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Sorry about that don't know what happened on my end. But anyway, a few questions.

Frank, can you tell us what your Venezuela revenues are? We in consensus are surprised by the size of the hit. Can you all hear me?

IAN READ: Yes, we can hear you. You're a little staticy but we can hear you.

JAMI RUBIN: Okay sorry about that. Anyway, so Frank if you could just provide more color on Venezuela.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure.

JAMI RUBIN: And, why such a big hit?

And then Ian, a couple questions for you. Back on this whole breakup thesis and the timing. I think investors initially were disappointed by the timing you laid out at the time that you announced the Allergan deal. I think you said you'd make a decision by the end of 2018.

I want to put out there that the stock has pulled back quite a bit since you announced the Allergan deal. And I would think, despite clearly the market is excited about this, but I would think the even growing gap in valuation between where your stock is in an SOTP, should help you to accelerate your decision to move in that direction. And if you could just comment on that please?

And then, thirdly, on revenue growth. Clearly, there have been tons of pushes and pulls in your numbers. Mostly currency and patent expirations.

Can you remind us when you expect, and this excludes the acquisition from Allergan, but when you expect your reported revenue growth? Or just talk about operationally revenue growth. When we should start to see a positive inflection point?

Because it has, when I look at my models revenues have been in decline for many years. And some of that is divestitures and spins, but, since 2013 we've had revenue flat to down. When is that going to change, or what drives that change talking from Pfizer standpoint? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Let me just do the revenue growth first. Well, as I said, 2015 was the first year when we saw revenue growth. 2016 operationally, we expected it to be Hospira and Allergan, we expected it to be flat. And that's because we had a huge growth from Adult Vaccine in 2015 and will hold that franchise, we won't grow it again.

We'll have good growth from our in line products and our newly launched products. But we still deal with a couple of billion of LOEs.

So I think you can begin to see, as we begin to get more traction with more clinical trials in Ibrance, as we begin to see the ertugliflozin launch, and we begin see our next wave of products get approved. You'll see us returning to very robust growth. But obviously, Jami one of the reasons for doing the Allergan deal, was in fact to ensure that we had robust growth in our innovative business. So we're aware of that issue.

Now, vis-a-vis the breakup timing. Number one, I'd point out that while the stock is down, I don't think it's specifically down more than the DRG. In fact, I think it's roughly the same as a DRG. And in fact, given the arb pressure that one would expect in the stock, I'm actually well, one never like to see the stock go down, it certainly was expected to come under pressure from the arb community.

Now the breakup timing, is an issue of, we are focused on integrating this Company and the two companies together. And we have laid out the four questions that we need to answer. And I think any shareholder would want those questions answered. So, can we run the businesses successfully inside Pfizer?

And, we have bought Hospira, you're seeing sterile injectables. You've got the biosimilars. You're beginning to see if you'll strip out the LOEs, the stabilization of the core business, which we expect to return to growth. But that being said, we can run it well inside Pfizer.

Can it be run better outside Pfizer? Is there trapped value and can we unlock the trapped value in a tax efficient manner? And these are very serious questions. These are very large companies.

And, I think that by the end of 2018 we will be well positioned to make that decision in the best interest of our shareholders. And frankly, don't particularly see a way of short circuiting that, just because of the amount of work that has to be done and integration, and getting the transaction with Allergan right. I do understand your wish for more speedy decision, but I think we're taking the right approach for shareholder value here.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Venezuela?

IAN READ: Yes.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So Jami, Venezuela revenues -- that were, I'll call it initially projected for 2016 were about $800 million. Roughly the same size as 2015. And if you look at the adjustment we took, we changed the exchange rate from 6.3 Boliviar to the dollar to 200 Boliviar to the dollar. We went to the Simadi rate for Venezuela.

That change in the translation is what causes the adjustment that we made for 2016. And we thought that the timing of that adjustment was appropriate. Given oil prices, given what's going on in Venezuela economically. Given the dollars that are coming out of Venezuela.

We thought the timing for this was appropriate. But it's really the 6.3 Bolivar to 200 Bolivar to the dollar conversion that's really causing the adjustment for 2016.

IAN READ: Now Jami, ongoing, when Venezuela passes through this crisis and they reestablish a normal economy, we would expect Venezuela to grow back to be in the $200 million to $300 million -- between $200 million and $400 million a year. So the actual delta medium term is the $400 million between what was an overvalue in currency. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks Ian and Frank.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Three questions please, two of them very short. Firstly, perhaps you could just outline the sequential growth for China (inaudible) the last quarter. Second, do you anticipate a third notice from the Treasury on conversion? And obviously, we are not at the point where the (inaudible) notice. But how restricted do you see any notice, if it does impact your potential to complete the Allergan transaction?

And finally, just returning to Abemaciclib the patients in their ongoing Phase 2 trial, which they intend for an accelerated approval, have not seen palbociclib in earlier line of therapy. Is that an approvable setting given the design of that trial? Given the fact you are approved for their indication, or does that in your view, preclude any regulatory approval for the drug? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay, I'm going to do the notice first. We, at the moment, understand the Treasury are working on formalizing and regulating the first two notices they issued. Which are not, in many ways, applicable to our transaction as we are at the below 60% ownership.

I really can't speculate if there's going to be a third notice or not. We feel confident the transaction is fully within the US law, and fully within accepted interpretation of that law. And expect the transaction to close in the second half of next year. With that I'd go to growth with Frank and then ask I would ask Mikael to talk about palbociclib.

FRANK D'AMELIO: It was China.

IAN READ: China.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, on China for the quarter, China grew 10%. Full year, China grew about 10%. Nice numbers.

Somewhat moderated from 2014. In 2014, China grew at about 15%. So we saw some moderation in the growth in China.

That said, Andrew we remain very bullish on China. It has an increasing population, increasing personal wealth. Government is committed to healthcare, we see increased spending in the government. And the GDP rate is still very healthy. Not as high as it's been in past, but still quite healthy. So, we remain bullish on the China market on a going forward basis.

IAN READ: Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC: Thank you Andrew, for a good question here. Two things.

First, I want to just point out that Abemaciclib it's somewhat different from Palbo and Novartis CDK drug in that it seems to be less selective, and has a different adverse event profile. Likely due to hitting multiple CDKs, particularly being reported significant GI issues. So it's a different profile, and we, as Albert very well pointed out, have been extremely pleased with a favorable profile that allow patients to benefit from Ibrance with very good tolerability.

Now, you asked about this late stage population studies by Abema, and how that population in the future will evolve. We anticipate, as Ibrance is having a very nice uptake in the marketplace, in first-line metastatic, and some also more advanced lines. And hopefully with PALOMA-3 approval Ibrance is likely to be used in multiple lines. Hence, monotherapy with another CDK, will of course, have the potential to face a patient population that have seen a CDK inhibitor.

And that's why we are developing a strategy for how we can see patients benefit from a drug like Ibrance, at various stages with different anti-hormonals and also now studying Ibrance in triple therapy. So I think you can see that multiple drugs is likely to be the preferred, as patients become more advanced.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Morning, everyone. Thanks for taking the question.

Just, again, on the biosimilar front. There's a been a couple questions, but a couple more if I could.

One, specifically on Enbrel. And if you could discuss, in terms of 2016, how you're viewing the impact of biosimilars to your performance for that product?

And then second, now that Hospira has closed, this is a question for John. In terms of the value of having a biosimilar business under the same broad umbrella as your innovative business, so you can leverage that commercial infrastructure, for areas like Oncology and autoimmune disorders. Does it in anyway make more sense then to keep Pfizer as a single entity as opposed to splitting up and then needing to rebuild a commercial infrastructure for your biosimilars in those similar areas where you do have innovative products? Thanks.

IAN READ: Vamil, I'll ask Geno to talk about Enbrel and the impact to biosimilars in Europe.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC: So, the first biosimilar for etanercept has been approved in Europe. And we've been watching the situation very closely, and evaluating adoption of biosimilars across each of the countries throughout Europe for awhile now.

Our overall expectation is that there will be somewhat modest impact in 2016. The biosimilar landscape is clearly still developing. There are different approaches taken by different countries. And we have a very clear detailed road map for how to address each of the dynamics that exist in these different countries.

So we're fairly confident that we'll continue to have a strong Enbrel business throughout Europe. We think the new patients would be probably most at risk of being exposed to the biosimilars. And hope that the availability of lower cost biologics will expand the market. So, overall, we see this as again, a modest impact to our business in the initial period of time.

IAN READ: And then, Vamil, a very interesting question on the connectivity between the biosimilars and the other space. I would say that would be taken into account if there was any such linkage that was positive in our TSAs, the way we set up the separate companies to insure that as overall, we maximize the value of that between both companies in the contracts we would sign, if we decided to split.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: First, apologies if I missed the explanation, but the 2016 guidance includes roughly an incremental $4 billion in revenue and $0.08 in earnings from Hospira, implying down to significantly down underlying sales for the legacy Pfizer and flattish to down EPS. And it seems that generic exposure and currency cannot be the explanations, because the predicted $4.6 billion hurdle in 2016 from these factors is well less than the $6 billion plus predicted in 2015 at this time last year.

So, actually the comparison on generic exposure and currency is improving. And more than offsets the year-over-year increase in Prevnar. So any thoughts on that would be appreciated.

And one more. How should we think about the long term outlook for Sutent particularly given the competition from Immuno-Oncology agents? Do you think Sutent will soon become a declining asset or do you see growth in the future? Thanks.

IAN READ: I'll ask Albert to talk about Sutent and its possible combinations. And the other studies we have reading out on Sutent. And then I'll ask Frank to come back on your questions about growth rates.

ALBERT BOURLA: We remain very confident in our position in the RCC space. Especially, and that includes both Sutent and Inlyta. Because they are very well known by physicians and other stakeholders.

There is an approval in RCC for immunotherapy, but this doesn't affect Sutent. It is in the second line. Sutent is used primarily in first-line.

And we have also, as we have previously disclosed, we are studying Inlyta plus avelumab and Inlyta plus other PD-1 inhibitors very aggressively, so we can see better results in monotherapy in RCC second line.

IAN READ: Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, Steve. Let's see if I can answer the question.

So first, we don't give a specific number for Hospira revenues for 2016. With that said I believe I can still answer the question.

So, the way I think about this is, if you went to the mid-point of the guidance prior to foreign exchange in Venezuela, which was part of the basis of your question. The mid-point of the guidance would be 52.3, we'll use the midpoint. If you take 52.3, compare that to the 48.9 that we printed in 2015, all now at the same foreign exchange so purely operational, that's an increase of about $3.5 billion. We said, Ian said when he answered Jami's question, that revenue excluding Hospira on a year-over-year basis was essentially flat operationally while absorbing $2.3 billion in LOEs for 2016.

The other data point I think to help answer the question is, remember, we did $1.5 billion in Hospira sales this year. So, when we say the bulk of the growth is from Hospira you understand it's incremental growth on top of the $1.5 billion that we printed in 2015. So that's how you get to the numbers we said and why we said operationally, the numbers were essentially flat if you left Hospira out of the equation.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi guys. How you doing? Thanks for being so clear on the communications in the quarter.

I have one question that's been danced around, but maybe let me just ask it again in hopes that I won't annoy you, but I'll try again. So the first is do you believe there's anything, Ian under the current US statute that would allow Treasury to block and/or materially delay the closing of the Allergan deal? So I'm not asking if there will be a third proposed notice, but if under the current law do you remain very comfortable that there's nothing that Treasury legally could do to block the deal or to materially delay it like into 2017 when there will be a new Congress and a new President?

And then I'd also just, for Frank perhaps, just like you talked a little bit about your leverage ratio. If my math is right, the leverage ratio of the combined Company the NewCo, should it close, would be around one. By my math, you could take that to maybe three without affecting credit ratings in a big way, but that's my math and I'm not very good at math. So I'd love to hear your general thoughts around leverage ratio of the NewCo and where you might be willing to take that should the deal close, thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you Mark, for the compliment on the clarity of the communications. We strive to make them clear. So, on your question, which I don't think we danced around, under current law, I do not believe there is any reason why this deal will not close. Full stop.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Mark, let me run some numbers. On leverage, let me run the Pfizer numbers based on third quarter. We haven't issued a balance sheet for the fourth quarter, we'll do that when we file the K.

We had about $37 billion of cash and investments. We had about $39 billion of debt, short and long term debt. So, to your point, call that one-to-one essentially.

And what we said when we announced the Allergan deal -- what I said, was we could take the leverage ratio to your point up to about 2.5 to 3. And, obviously once we took it there we would want to see what kind of rhythm that created relative to the Company. The operations supporting the Company, and that we take it there but that we would still want access to commercial paper.

We would be willing to take a one notch down grade, but still want to have access to commercial paper. But in terms of your math, and your calculation that 2.5 to 3, that's right. That is basically what I talked about when we announced the Allergan deal so your math was good.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: A few things. One is, can you tell us what the key products are in Venezuela if there are any massive ones we need to be hitting the model on.

Second, Frank, maybe you could go through some of the push/pulls on SG&A, and how you're thinking about the spending this year. And then third, can you just give us an update on the IL-6? Thanks.

IAN READ: So key products. I don't think there's any outstanding products. Probably Enbrel is the biggest product that contributes. John would you want to add anything?

JOHN YOUNG: Enbrel is the biggest product, and in addition we have a portfolio of mature, established products. So, Lipitor and Norvasc would be other key products for us in Venezuela. So really just think about the basket of established products and that fit in that marketplace.

IAN READ: SG&A?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So Marc, on SG&A. Let me just talk to the quarter and then I'll talk to the rhythm of the numbers.

So if you look at the quarter, we had a big spend in SG&A. It was $4.6 billion all-in, and three major factors there. One, obviously the inclusion of Hospira which added a couple hundred million.

Two was, sequentially, if you're thinking about the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter, we had a lot more selling days in the quarter. So internationally we had six more selling days, domestically two more selling days. So sequentially, Q3 of 2015 to Q4 of 2015, we had more selling days. So obviously that helps revenue, it also increases the spend on our line items.

And then we had, obviously I alluded to in my comments increased promotional spend in many areas of the business. Now, if you take that $4.6 billion and you annualize it. Times 2 is what, $9.2 billion times 2 is $18.4 billion. If you look at the guidance we gave for next year on SI&A, it's $13.2 billion to $14.2 billion.

So you can't take that Q4 number and annualize it. You get to a number that's nothing close to our guidance for 2016. It was just a combination of the Hospira numbers, the selling days, and then increased spend in the quarter. But when you look at it for next year, we have a number that on an annual basis is significantly lower than what that annualized number will be.

IAN READ: Mikael Do you want to discuss IL-6?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes thank you for your question. So we tested IL-6 antibody in Lupus and Crohn, and while the antibody did show some activity, we found that the overall profile did not compete as well as many other real interesting immunology agents and odd opportunities we have in our very rich pipeline of 90 clinical programs. So this is part of prudent portfolio prioritization within Pfizer.

IAN READ: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions, and for all of the clarity that you've given on the 2016 guidance. Ian, first question, on the timing around the breakup. I think you've indicated that integration of Allergan is very important. You've also indicated that you've had time to look even deeper into the Allergan portfolio.

As you think about integration, can you give us some more commentary around how you're thinking about mapping out integration? Some look at Wyeth and the massive amount of synergies that you're able to extract out of the Wyeth transaction, and are somewhat puzzled as to why you can't do that here. So any commentary around that.

Two additional questions, one on CDK 4/6 this one's for Mikael. Mikael, when you look at preclinical models, is there any argument or hypothesis around a drug that has to be given intermittently, that it might have less efficacy than one that's given on a continuous dosing? And is that supported by any preclinical models?

And then the last question just has to do with Xeljanz. Obviously a very important asset for you, not only in the US, but on the EU timing for filing. I think you indicated you wanted to have that filed before the end of the year. Just any update on what Europe is looking for within that filing to secure approval in Europe?

And then on psoriasis in the US? Any developments there? And on the modified release from a regulatory standpoint? And then, obviously with Enbrel seeing generic competition what have you done with your infrastructure in Europe to still keep some infrastructure in place to support Xeljanz if and when it gets approved?

IAN READ: Okay, so let's just quickly the last one first. We still have very strong expectations from Enbrel in Europe. As Geno was discussing, we aren't removing our support from Enbrel. So we expect to have full support for Xeljanz when it launches in Europe.

There was a somewhat of a slippage from, as you say, the end of the year to the beginning of this year on the Xeljanz application in Europe. We wanted to get it right, and make sure that it was in the best shape we could. And these things happened so there was a slight slippage on time on that.

Mikael, do you want to deal with this hypothetical on CDK 4/6?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, thank you for the questions. And of course always, we would caution you can't speculate on things that haven't been studied in humans in comparative aspects.

But, we think it's important to hit CDK 4/6 hard for breast cancer. And when you do that with high doses, you'll get efficacy on the tumor, but also see some neutropenia. And that's why we chose the intermittent schedules, particularly seems effective for combination therapy with multiple agents such as anti-hormonals in breast cancer.

For other tumor types, we may explore various schedules for various combination of drugs. But, for breast cancer we think the chosen schedule with the combinations we have studied is very effective and works well.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno do you want to deal with the other questions that John asked on Xeljanz?

GENO GERMANO: Yes, John. I think the question in EU, as Ian already alluded to, we're now expecting our filing to be in the first quarter of this year. We're actually meeting with rapporteurs at this point.

We did generate additional data on immune function as a result of the discussions that we had with the regulators in the first submission. So, we feel that we have a strong package that we have responded to the information request that they had, and we're just tidying up the last few details and expect to put that filing in imminently.

IAN READ: And then psoriasis? There's a question on psoriasis.

GENO GERMANO: So psoriasis, as you probably know we received a complete response letter from the FDA on psoriasis. We have provided a backgrounder to the FDA, and we expect to meet with them also this quarter to follow-up on the components of the complete response letter. And once we know in more detail what their issues and concerns are then we'll determine the best way forward from there.

IAN READ: Thank you. Frank do you want to deal with the synergy number?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, so we said when we announced a deal more than $2 billion we gave you the timing in terms of when we would get that. Couple comments, John to your question.

I think first, why more than $2 billion, why not a higher number? I think these are two companies that have done a lot on the cost reduction front. Significant reductions at both companies. I think efficiently run companies.

Two, not a lot of therapeutic area or overlap. Which is always kind of a trigger for synergy opportunities.

Third, if you look at the Allergan cost of goods sold, 2/3 of that from our perspective from a synergy perspective was unaddressable. It's their ANDA business and royalties. So not a lot we could do there.

But all that said and done, we're working now with the Allergan teams, with Brent, with Bob Stuart with Tessa. Ian, myself our leadership team here at Pfizer we've already launched a couple of operational teams. And we're starting to dig into this in much more detail, and if there's more there please know we're going to get it and we'll tell you about it. So, on a synergy front, there's more to come.

IAN READ: John, the purpose of this deal was not huge cost synergies. It was about driving revenue. Growth in the Innovative Business. Driving reasonably young portfolios, taking the products internationally, and then getting excellent capital allocation over the world.

So, we will get the synergies we can get but our focus is on growth, and a lot of questions on the call have been about growth. This is part of the solution to that, and also on really a good capital allocation.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you if I could go back to the revenue guidance, the mid-point is about $2.5 billion below consensus. You flagged FX as a major headwind. I know that we spend a lot of time trying to incorporate FX, and I imagine consensus does too yet, that's still a very big delta. So, my question on this is when you look at analyst models are there particular revenue line items for products or divisions where you think consensus is too high unrelated to foreign exchange?

Second question, you mentioned the 4-1BB with Merck in showing combination data with Keytruda and that's Phase 1 data, so, as such it's unblinded. I'm wondering if you can give us a preview of the tumor types you think are most promising? And also any preliminary safety findings? And then last pipeline question. Last year you mentioned having an oral PCSK9 approaching human development and I'm wondering if that is now in the clinic, when I look at your pipeline chart I see a new compound has been advanced into Phase 1.

IAN READ: Okay, Frank if you could deal with the first question? And Mikael with the remaining two.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Tim let me run the numbers and then I'll answer the question. So, your numbers are right.

So, consensus numbers give or take on revenue for 2016 about $52.4 billion. The mid-point of our guidance $50 billion, the math there is roughly $2.5 billion that you alluded to -- to nail the numbers.

Two major pieces in terms of the gap. One is, clearly the Venezuela adjustment we made in 2016 wouldn't have been in the $52.4 billion. So that's an $800 million adjustment. That would take the $52.4 billion to $51.6 billion.

And then, I think when you look at the line items, the big difference if you ask me to point out one single place it's Prevnar 13. The growth expectations in Prevnar 13, 2016 versus our modeling for 2016 where I said in my comments and Albert punctuated in some of his detailed remarks, about we're expecting that to be essentially comparable to 2015 levels. Those are the two things that I would point out that make up the majority, big piece of the difference in terms of your $2.5 billion.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: So thank you for asking about 4-1BB. And as you know we believe that combination therapy will move the Immuno-Oncology field to the next level. We are very pleased with the 4-1BB monoclonal antibody that we have.

We have studied it in combination with rituximab, in lymphoma and with PD-1 Keytruda in a small study across various tumor types. And now also, initiated combination study with avelumab. The 4-1BB antibody -- the Pfizer antibody, shows very good tolerability when combined with other biological agents. And its clinical performance suggests also a very interesting favorable clinical activity on top of other biologicals, such as rituximab and PD-1 Keytruda.

We will share the data from this first cohort this year likely at ASCO. We are quite excited about 4-1BB and also look forward to that in our pipeline. And you will see 4-1BB avelumab data likely late this year as well as OX-40 monodata and early next year several doublets and triplets which makes me very enthusiastic as I look forward, how we advance this strategy of combination therapy.

We have an oral PCSK9 in Phase 1. It's too early to have any definitive interpretation of that data, and we also have a PCSK9 vaccine in late preclinical development.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Mikael.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Richard Purkiss from Piper Jaffray.

RICHARD PURKISS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Oh, thanks I had a couple of questions for Mikael. Just on Ibrance, can you flag any upcoming data for tumor types outside of breast cancer that we should look out for? Also, can you update on how well the adjuvant breast cancer studies are enrolling? Thanks.

IAN READ: Mikael would you like to?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, I could say a few words. So, as Albert alluded to, there is a large number of Ibrance studies, the great majority by investing in initiated research. So we will have to see as these studies reach out report emerging.

I can say that we also have sponsor-lead studies outside breast, that includes pancreatic cancer and head and neck. And we are also looking at triple therapy in breast cancer.

I remain optimistic and excited about Ibrance performance. And think we will see interesting data sets coming from several of these new tumor types.

IAN READ: Enrollment? It's going well?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes actually, I can only add here that likely the mantel cell lymphoma and the head and neck. We may see data even this year. And then many of the areas that Mikael discussed, including lung we may see next year.

IAN READ: Okay thanks Albert and Michael.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Geoff Meacham from Barclays.

GEOFF MEACHAM, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning guys thanks for taking the question. Just a couple of quick ones.

On Bococizumab, given Pfizer's experience in cardiovascular, I was just curious what your thoughts of the demand trends were looking peripherally at the PCSK9 class today. I know a lot, looking forward to outcomes data, but just curious about whether there's a tipping point, and position adoption.

And on biosimilars in the US, just want to get your view on where you think the FDA is with respect to extrapolation? When we're looking at the upcoming Remsima panel next week. Thanks.

IAN READ: Geno any comments?

GENO GERMANO: Yes, I think I'd reinforce the comment that you made. It's been our contention all along that this class becomes a real class in managing patients with the cardiovascular outcome data that we'll be seeing either late this year or starting next year. Our program is advancing nicely.

We have, as you know, two cardiovascular outcome trials. And the ASPIRE-2 trial which is in the high risk patient population, we've now reached a point where we discontinued screening. We're almost completely enrolled, and that trial is moving along very rapidly.

And ASPIRE-1 trial will be completely enrolled by the end of this year, or early next year. So we're looking forward to these data and the impact we think it will have on the marketplace.

JOHN YOUNG: So on the Inflectra AdCom as you know it scheduled for February 9, next week. I think it will probably be premature to speculate on the view that the FDA will take. We certainly think that this will be extremely informative as to the FDA's views and perspectives on extrapolation.

I think, obviously the product is being filed by Celltrion so specific questions about the AdCom really should be directed to Celltrion. But what I would say is that while we obviously await the resolution of the advisory committee and certain other factors, we're certainly moving ahead with the preparation for launch plans in 2016.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks Geno and John.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. I have three questions.

First, Ian besides the likelihood of closing, what do you think investors most under appreciate about the Allergan merger?

Second, these are two financial questions. One is with respect to Enbrel ex-US, could you just give us a sense for the percentage of revenue that is in countries where biosimilars are launching in 2016 so that we have a sense for the percentage of Enbrel revenue that's exposed to biosimilar threats?

And finally, Frank if you could just run through the cash flow outlook for 2016? The operating cash flow and then the planned use of funds? Thank you.

IAN READ: David your question on Allergan, our interactions with the shareholders both sell-side and buy-side have been very positive. I don't think in reality there's anything under appreciated other than the street's perception of risk around the close.

I would direct you back, of course, to the excitement I have about the products that Allergan have that they just launched. About their Phase 3 products, both in depression, and in diabetic gastroparesis, and they just got breakthrough status. And the combination of our information knowledge, and our TAs with Xeljanz around their area, our JAKs around their expertise in that area, I think perhaps the street is right now hung up on this close issue.

GENO GERMANO: David on the question regarding percentage of Enbrel business, potentially exposed to biosimilar competition, I don't have a figure on the top of my head. I would say more than 50% of the ex-US business would be in the European Union, where we expect to see biosimilars. We aren't expecting to see it in Japan, Australia and several of the Latin American countries, but I would say it's more than 50% of the business.

FRANK D'AMELIO: The last question was on 2016 operating cash flow. The way I'll answer this Dave, is, if you look at our operating cash flow through three quarters, it was about $10 billion. We expect the fourth quarter to be healthy in terms of the operating cash flow for the year. And then obviously 2016, we want to continue to grow that operating cash flow number.

And then in terms of the uses from our perspective, the uses of how we deploy our capital haven't changed. Obviously, investing in our business and our returning capital to shareholders. I mentioned in my remarks we returned $13.1 billion to our shareholders in 2015 through a combination of dividends and share buybacks. And obviously looking at some bolt on acquisitions, if those make sense.

So, no change would be how I'd answer the question on capital allocation.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks Frank.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, also a three-parter. First, Frank what level of detail should we expect in the proxy in terms of your long term projections? Similar to the Pfizer Weyth documents or any differences and caveats you'd like to let us know about before folks start slapping accretion percentages on those numbers?

Secondly, going back to something you'll said earlier, taking your leverage to 2.5 to 3 times for NewCo, if you were to apply that capital to buybacks that would create EPS accretion that is far beyond what you've suggested. So would like your thoughts on what you'd be doing with that leverage or is that a hypothetical?

And third, for John do you still see the benefit of the Hospira device business alongside the drug business as you originally thought, thank you.

IAN READ: John could you deal with Hospira first please?

JOHN YOUNG: Yes sure. So I think we would say that in the Hospira infusion systems business, which comprises pumps, consumables, large volume solutions. We believe we acquired a very valuable asset that provides novel capabilities in an adjacent area. And it adds significant value to the customers and the patients. We are committed to insuring its success in short, medium and longer term.

IAN READ: Okay Frank on the leverage and then the level detail?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, so I think on level of detail, we'll be providing revenue details, EPS details, projected out I believe it's several years -- five years. So there will be information out there relative to projections on the Company.

On the leverage number the 2.5 to 3, in my mind that's what's possible. In terms of what we did on buybacks, we tried to provide information when we announced the deal to give you all of the data you needed so that when you connected the dots you could model what the buyback numbers would be, right?

So we started out with the accretion dilution. We said neutral in year one, modestly accretive in year two, more than 10% in year three, and high teens in year four.

We gave what the beginning share count number of the combined Company would be. It was 10.6 billion shares we said we would have 5.9 billion and Allergan would have 4.7 billion. And then we gave the tax rate which was 17% to 18%.

So with those data points we thought we provided the information that you needed in order to model what the buybacks would be. And just to the 2.5 to 3, clearly there could be some extra juice if we took the leverage ratio up to that level.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks, just two quick ones here. First, more broadly on emerging markets, can you talk about the growth outlook here? Maybe on China just given the current economic environment we're seeing has there been any change in your growth expectations there?

And then the second question for Ian, I know you've had a very large deal pending right now. But how are you thinking about Business Development given the recent volatility and value ratio reset we see in the market?

What's the size and scope of assets that you could be interested at this point given the upcoming Allergan transaction? And maybe how quickly post the Allergan transaction could this Company start considering larger deals if there was an attractive opportunity in the market?

IAN READ: John do you want to talk about China?

JOHN YOUNG: Sure, as we always say Chris, on emerging markets we'll always see quarter-to-quarter volatility. But at the same time, we continue to expect to see growth numbers in the mid-single digit -- mid to high single digit range.

Frank's already talked about China. We continue to be positive about the prospects in the short, medium and longer term in China. It's obviously not just the world's largest country -- it's 1.3 billion to 1.4 billion population. But we continue to see a strong government commitment to expanding access to quality healthcare.

We're very encouraged by steps that we see the government taking in the regulatory environment to really enhance quality standards in the marketplace. And whilst there are a few headwinds, GDP growth is slowing but still positive, still mid-six single digit percentages. We are seeing some pressure in pricing. But overall, when you put all of those factors together, we continue to see China being a very positive growth driver.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. And on BD, Chris, we see it would be more focused to smaller deals than larger deals right now. But once we close, we'll look at the opportunities and we still have substantial flexibility.

And of course, it will be measured against the alternative uses of that cash which, right now, are scheduled for buybacks and the accretion equation. So we'll make the decisions that we believe are best for shareholders, and we'll take into account what the assets are priced at, at the time we close.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And Chris, the only thing I'd add is we Pfizer standalone today generate a lot of operating cash flow. The combined new Company, we said by 2018, will be generating in excess of $25 billion a year in operating cash flow. So the new Company will generate significant amounts of operating cash flow.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Last question please, Operator?

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Manoj Garg from Healthco.

MANOJ GARG, ANALYST, ABR-HEALTHCO: Hi, it's Manoj. Thanks for taking the question. A couple on the pending Allergan transaction and one on next Tuesday's panel.

On Allergan -- one, if you can just highlight what some of the levers that would dictate whether the deal would close in early second half of 2016 versus later in the second half? Two, just for Frank, on the $2 billion synergy number, if you could just quantify as we fine tune our pro forma model, if that's a gross number or a net number?

IAN READ: Okay on the levers, Doug Lankler could you indicate what you see the levers are for the close?

DOUG LANKLER, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC: Sure. So, Manoj, we're working closely with regulators. We're pleased with the process that we're making. We like the standpoint from the complimentary nature of the businesses, and as a result we continue to expect to close the transaction during the second half.

IAN READ: Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: It's a net number. The synergy number is a net number. He asked whether it was gross or net and the answer is it's a net number.

CHUCK TRIANO: Okay. That should do it thank you very much for your questions.

IAN READ: Thanks for your time everybody.

OPERATOR: Ladies and Gentlemen this does conclude today's Fourth Quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc | hospra : Hospira Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | imedres : Medical Research Services | iphhss : Healthcare Support Services | iphlab : Medical/Clinical/Diagnostic Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160203ec22001up
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,876 words
   PD
27 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Third-Quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's Third-Quarter 2015 performance. I'm joined today as usual by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, General Counsel. The slides that will be presented on the call can be viewed at our home page, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Third Quarter 2015, which is located the Investor Presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start I'd like to remind you that our discussion during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2014 annual report, as well as on Forms 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our current report on Form 8-K dated today, October 27, 2015.

We'll now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a question-and-answer session. With that, I'll turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian.

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck. Thank you for joining our call this morning. During my remarks I will briefly recap highlights from the quarter, provide a brief update on the pipeline, and close with a few thoughts on the issue of drug pricing.

To begin, I would note that we've had another quarter of strong operational performance, and we have grown revenues operationally every quarter this year. This top-line growth resulted from several factors including the strong performance of inline brands such as Lyrica in the US, Enbrel and Chantix, the uptake from our new products that are early in their life cycle, including Prevnar 13 Adult, Ibrance and Eliquis, and growth in the emerging markets. We remain focused on continuing to generate this type of performance where a greater proportion of our EPS growth is generated from top-line revenue growth.

Just a brief word regarding Prevnar 13. We continue to see a very attractive worldwide opportunity for the adult indication. In the US we have done an excellent job finding and protecting 25% to 30% of the eligible population older than 65, and we did this more quickly than anticipated. As a reminder, on the last quarter's earnings call we said we expect to continue to focus on the remaining population over 65 in the US, although this will require sustained effort as this group is more difficult to reach. Also of note, during the quarter we closed the Hospira acquisition. And I'm pleased to report that the integration is progressing smoothly and we're beginning to see the expected value contribution to our GEP business.

In terms of revenue, we are now the leading global player in the fast-growing sterile injectable business. And we're the number two biosimilars company in the world. Through the acquisition we now have three marketed products and more than seven years of in-market experience with one of these products. Our biosimilars pipeline is now one of the largest pipelines globally, with seven additional molecules in our portfolio under development.

We recently received a complete response letter from the FDA for Retacrit, a biosimiliar epoetin. We are working closely with the FDA to address the concerns of the letter, and at this time we do not believe any further clinical trials are needed. We are confident that the additional evidence we provide will support approval, and remain committed to bringing this important medicine to patients in the US as quickly as possible.

Few comments about the pipeline. I see our pipeline momentum continuing to build, and remain particularly encouraged by our growing strength and presence in immuno-oncology. Regarding the anti-PD-L1 avelumab partnered with Merck KGaA, the FDA recently granted Orphan Drug and Fast Track Designation for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, a rare and aggressive type of skin cancer. If successful, the first potential commercial launch of avelumab is anticipated in 2017. And our goal is to have at least one or more additional launches each year through 2022.

Beyond avelumab, we have a broad immuno-oncology portfolio across numerous mechanisms including 4-1BB, OX40, a vaccine-based immuno-oncology regimen, and CCR2. Four of these assets are already in the clinic, 4-1BB, OX40, CCR2 and avelumab. And we expect to have up to 10 different I-O drugs in the clinic by 2016.

We continue to see combination therapy as having the greatest potential within immuno-oncology, and our broad portfolio of I-O, small molecule and ADC oncology assets will afford us the opportunity to test a wide range of combination regimens on our own and with our partner, Merck KGaA. We continue to grow our footprint in I-O through other collaborations, such a CAR-T with Cellectis, and in IDO1 with iTEOS. And we entered into a collaboration with Kyowa Hakko Kirin to combine our 4-1BB with their anti-CCR4 antibody, and started a Phase 1 study in May. We believe this portfolio, along with our skilled scientists, should enable Pfizer to be a formidable player in this high opportunity area.

Turning to vaccines. In early July we announced the first patient was enrolled in a Phase 2 clinical trial of our investigational Staphylococcus aureus vaccine. We anticipate this study will complete in late 2017, with an interim analysis planned for late in 2016. Also in agreement with FDA we restarted the Phase 2 trial for our Clostridium difficile vaccine, which has previously received Fast Track Designation in August 2014. Enrollment in this program is now complete, and we expect to review data from it by end of the year.

In chronic pain there remains a significant unmet need, with nearly one in five adults affected. To address that opportunity, Pfizer and Lilly have resumed the Phase 3 chronic pain program for tanezumab. This program consists of six studies in approximately 7,000 patients across osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and cancer pain. The study results are projected to begin reporting out in 2017 and 2018. Of note, in the prior clinical studies of more than 11,000 patients, tanezumab demonstrated clinically meaningful efficacy versus placebo and other commonly used pain medicines.

In inflammation and immunology, we are focusing our future investment and development programs on indications for Xeljanz in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis while deprioritizing further development in Crohn's disease and ankylosing spondylitis.

Additionally, we received a complete response letter from the FDA on psoriasis. While we have yet to meet with the Agency to discuss their concerns, we recognize overcoming the issues raised may be difficult, especially in light of the evolving marketplace. We will reconsider our investment in the psoriasis indication for Xeljanz following this discussion with the FDA.

I would note that a new generation of potential therapies including oral-selected JAK inhibitors and IRAK4 are planned to enter Phase 2 studies in 2016 for inflammatory bowel disease, atopic dermatitis and rheumatic diseases. We have a once-daily filing for Xeljanz under review at the FDA. We have a PDUFA date in February for the treatment of moderate to severe RA in patients who have had inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate. If approved, we believe once daily dosing will add to its competitive profile. In addition, we intend to resubmit a Marketing Authorization Application to the European Medicines Agency by the first quarter of 2016 for the treatment of moderate to severe RA.

In assessing the current profile of our pipeline, I believe we have a competitive mix of compounds and modalities across the therapeutic areas I just spoke about, in addition to cardiovascular diseases, rare diseases and neuroscience where our expertise matches the potential we see. I am pleased with our rate of progress.

Before turning to the call over the Frank, I'd like to offer a few thoughts regarding drug pricing. There's been a lot of attention on the issue of drug pricing, and given the upcoming US elections it will continue to be discussed and debated. Ultimately, I believe good public policy will prevail, ensuring the best outcome for patients while preserving a market-based system that enables the industry to continue developing new treatments and cures. However, that policy discussion must take into account the role of medicines and the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system.

Medicines are among the most effective and efficient use of private and public healthcare dollars. They represent around 10% of total healthcare costs, and are expected to remain the same percentage over the next several years. This is because the price of medicines drops significantly once the patent expires.

Today, about 9 out of 10 prescriptions in the US are for generic drugs, which leads to significantly reduced costs in the healthcare system. For example, 12 million people take atorvastatin, and the cost has declined around 90% since 2005. Given the high use of generics, many patients have access to medicines with low copays.

What's difficult is when individuals cannot afford the increases in their copays when their treatment is on a specialty tier. No individual should have to bear the full cost of their treatment when they become sick. The increase in copays stems from healthcare policies that have a short-term focus with limited incentives to pay for treatments or cures.

Having an efficient and affordable healthcare system requires incentives where insurance plans can be successful when they invest in long-term outcomes, and providers are successful by ensuring wellness and prevention rather than treating sickness. And to sustain the most vibrant, innovative biopharmaceutical industry in the world, we must preserve the market-based system in the US that enables us to continue to develop breakthrough treatments and cures for the benefit of patients.

In summary, we had another quarter of solid execution on all fronts. Product launches, cost and expense management, and the continued successful integration of Hospira into our business. We are on track to have a solid finish to the year. We remain focused on creating value for our shareholders, and continue to research and develop new treatments that help patients live longer, healthier lives. Now I will turn it over to Frank who will take you through you the numbers for the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. As you know, on September 3, 2015 we completed the acquisition of Hospira. Consequently and in accordance with our US and international reporting periods, our results for Third-Quarter 2015 and nine months ended September 27, 2015 include approximately one month of legacy Hospira US operations, but do not include any financial results from legacy Hospira international operations.

Third-Quarter 2015 reported revenues were approximately $12.1 billion and reflect year-over-year operational growth of $795 million, or 6%, mainly driven by the strong performance in developed markets of Prevnar 13 Adult, Ibrance and Eliquis, all of which are early in their lifecycles; Lyrica, primarily in the US; one month of legacy Hospira operations in the US; and 5% operational growth in emerging markets, mainly from innovative products. Reported revenues continued to be unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of $1.1 billion, or 9%, and the loss of exclusivity of Celebrex and Zyvox in the US and Lyrica in certain developed European markets.

Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.60 versus $0.57 in the year-ago quarter. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth of certain new inline and acquired products, a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, which declined by 160 million shares versus the year-ago quarter due to our share repurchase program, which includes the impact of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in February of 2015 and completed in July.

Adjusted diluted EPS was unfavorably impacted by $0.06 due to foreign exchange and the continued product losses of exclusivity in certain geographies. Reported diluted EPS was $0.34 compared with $0.42 in the year-ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the non-recurrence of a one-time charge associated with the healthcare reform fee versus the year-ago quarter, as well as the unfavorable impact of increased purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring charges, and acquisition-related costs associated with the acquisition of Hospira and higher asset impairment charges.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted Third-Quarter reported revenues by approximately $1.1 billion, or 9% and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted R&D expenses in the aggregate by $601 million, or 8%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted third-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.06 compared with the year-ago quarter.

Now moving onto the financial highlights of our business segments. In the third quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 10% operationally year over year due to the strong performance of recently launched products including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz in the US, and the strong performance of Viagra and Lyrica in the US and Enbrel in most international markets, which were partially offset by continued generic competition for Rapamune in the US.

Income before taxes increased 14% operationally due to the operational increase in revenues and the 7% operational decrease in cost of sales, partially offset by a 6% operational increase in SI&A expenses primarily due to additional investment and recently launched products and certain inline products, and the 7% operational increase in R&D reflecting increased investments in our late-stage pipeline primarily for bococizumab, tanezumab partially offset by lower post-marketing trial expenses.

Third-Quarter VOC revenues increased 37% operationally due to the 50% operational revenue growth from our Global Vaccines business as a result of Prevnar 13, which grew 77% in the US and 10% internationally; a 54% operational increase in Oncology revenues driven by Ibrance in the US and to a lesser extent by Sutent, Xalkori, and Inlyta in most markets; and the 7% operational increases in Consumer Healthcare revenues due to Nexium 24 Hour in the US.

Income before taxes increased 52% operationally mainly due to increased revenues with an associated improvement in gross margin, which were partially offset by a 26% operational increase in SI&A expenses due to higher promotional expenses for Prevnar 13 Adult and Ibrance, and an 18% operational increase in R&D expenses due to increased costs associated with our Oncology programs, primarily our alliance with Merck KGaA, partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses for certain vaccine programs.

In the Third Quarter Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues decreased 8% operationally mainly due to the loss of exclusivity and immediate multi-sourced generic competition for Celebrex in the US in December of 2014 and generic competition for Zyvox in the US beginning in the first half of 2015 and Lyrica in certain developed markets in Europe beginning in the first quarter 2015, which were partially offset by the $330 million contribution from one month of legacy Hospira operations in the US and 1% operational growth in emerging markets.

Income before taxes declined 11% operationally due to the decrease in revenues and a 3.2 percentage point operational increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues due to unfavorable change in product mix, an 8% operational increase in R&D expenses reflecting increased spending in biosimilars and legacy Hospira development programs largely offset by lower post-marketing clinical trial expenses, all of which were partially offset by an 11% operational decrease in SI&A expenses driven by lower expenses for products that have recently lost exclusivity and cost reduction productivity initiatives.

I want to remind everyone that on September 30 we updated our 2015 financial guidance ranges for reported revenues and reported and adjusted diluted EPS, solely to reflect the anticipated impact of legacy Hospira operations on Pfizer's financial results from September 3, 2015 through fiscal year end FY15. Today we are updating the ranges for certain components of our 2015 financial guidance to reflect the following factors: standalone Pfizer's strong performance to date coupled with an improved operational business outlook for the remainder of the year; the anticipated impact of legacy Hospira operations from September 3, 2015 through fiscal year end FY15 on components other than reported revenues and adjusted diluted EPS; and the minimal favorable impact from foreign exchange rates since mid-July.

Consequently, we now expect reported revenues to be in the range of $47.5 billion to $48.5 billion, mainly driven by the performance of Prevnar 13 Adult and Ibrance in the US, as well as Eliquis globally. I want to point out that this range continues to absorb an anticipated $3.3 billion negative impact from product losses of exclusivity and losses of alliance revenue this year and a $3.1 billion negative impact from foreign exchange versus 2014.

We also anticipate adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue to be in the range of 18.7% to 19.2%, adjusted SI&A to be in the range of $13.6 billion to $14.1 billion, and adjusted R&D expenses to be in the range of $7.5 billion to $7.8 billion. Finally, we expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.37 to $1.43 and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.16 to $2.20.

Now I'd like to walk you through the 2015 guidance ranges for reported revenues, reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS. Specifically what I'm pointing out on this chart is the impact of standalone Pfizer's operations on these three guidance ranges. With respect to reported revenues, we're raising the midpoint of the previous guidance range provided on September 30 by $1 billion and we're increasing the midpoint of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance range by $0.11. With respect to reported diluted EPS, as a result of Pfizer's standalone operations we've increased the midpoint of the range by $0.09. This increase includes a $0.02 negative impact from restructuring charges associated with the Hospira acquisition that are incremental to our previous guidance provided on September 30.

Moving onto key takeaways. We achieved another quarter of strong financial performance, despite product LOEs. I want to point out this is the fourth consecutive quarter that standalone Pfizer achieved operational revenue growth which was driven by products that are early in their lifecycles, including Prevnar 13 Adult, Ibrance and Eliquis. We raised the midpoints of our 2015 reported revenue and adjusted diluted EPS guidance ranges by $1 billion and $0.11 respectively to reflect both our year-to-date strong operational performance, as well as our improved operational outlook for the remainder of the year.

We closed the Hospira acquisition on September 3, which was immediately accretive to adjusted diluted EPS upon closing and expect it to be accretive by $0.10 to $0.12 in first full year after the close with additional accretion anticipated thereafter. And we continue to expect the transaction to deliver $800 million in cost savings by 2018.

We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. To date in 2015 we've returned $11.4 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, and we continue to expect to return approximately $13 billion to shareholders in 2015 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2015 and beyond. Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank and Ian, for the commentary. Operator, can we please poll for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from David Risinger of Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have two questions. The first is on Ibrance. Ian, could you just talk about the first-mover advantage for Ibrance and how you see that playing out in the marketplace? And also if you could comment on expectations for breast cancer survival data, and then any comments on the timing of readouts in other cancers?

And then separately, with respect to your pursuit of M&A in Innovative Pharma, maybe both you, Ian and Frank, can comment on your current focus and how you want to set expectations for investors. And also, Frank, if you could just talk through the difference between the benefits of a 60/40 inversion versus an 80/20 inversion, and just characterize how the economics would differ in those two different scenarios? Thank you very much.

IAN READ: Thank you. Albert, could you answer the Ibrance questions, please?

ALBERT BOURLA, PRESIDENT VACCINES, ONCOLOGY AND CONSUMER, PFIZER INC.: Yes, certainly. Let me start with the competitive environment and the first-mover advantage. I believe that speaking about our program, we have the most advanced and much broader program than any other competitor so far. And I say the most advanced because we are the first one, and the only one that we have registration right now in US, a product has been prescribed with over 4,000 physicians, and has been received by more than 15,000 patients so far. And we have also filed in Europe, and our file has been validated by the European authorities.

Also I say that we have a much broader program, because we do have right now already two studies in first line. We have two studies in recurrent metastatic breast cancer. And we have three studies clinical running in earlier phases of breast cancer. In addition beyond breast cancer, we have already 30 studies that are -- excuse me, 22 studies are running in other indications of solid tumors. So we have a clear, not only first-mover advantage, but we have a much broad program, as we see palbociclib as a major franchise going forward.

In terms of timing on readouts, and that depends on the studies. The two studies we have already read out, the PALOMA 2 study which is the confirmatory study, will read out next year. We have the early breast cancer studies, the pilot will read around 2017, or will come in completion in 2017. And the other two, PENELOPE B and PALLAS will come around 2020.

And as regards survival data, we don't have any news on survival data, which is expected, because the median survival in this type of population is approximately four years. So it will take some time until all these events will be accumulated.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert. On Innovative Pharma and BD, I think I'll sort of limit my comments to something similar to the previous quarter where we look as BD as a way of accelerating value to shareholders. We feel that if all things are equal on returns, strengthening the Innovative part of the Company will give a more balanced business between both Established and Innovative, especially in a potential split scenario, if we were to split the Company. And we continue to be actively looking at BD and looking at sources of value which are both pipeline, which are operational synergies and potential financial synergies. And certainly all our strength to expand upon and talk about the 60/40 or 80/20 space, and about how potentially wide the targets are for this type of innovation.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So Dave, the way to think about this is less than 60% full inversion, less than 80% but call it greater than 60%, kind of an in between, a tweener inversion. The way we think about this is, there's four buckets of cash in a hypothetical transaction like this. There's our existing overseas cash, and then there's our going-forward operating cash flow. And then there's the target's existing overseas cash, and then their going-forward operating cash flow. The target's existing overseas cash and going-forward operating cash flow would be unencumbered. Our existing overseas cash and going-forward operating cash flow would be encumbered.

And then the question becomes in a tweener situation, how much of our encumbered existing overseas cash and how much of our encumbered going-forward operating cash can become unencumbered? That's based on tax planning and those kinds of actions. And that is really, I'll call it on a case-by-case, situation-by-situation, company-by-company basis. But we think of it in those four buckets.

DAVID RISINGER: Thank you, Frank. So when you look at doing BD, you have to trade off what's the price, what's the value, what's the pipeline, and what's the risks you see in a case-by-case basis of sitting in the 80/20 space and 60/40 space. So thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Operator, can we move to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Can you hear me all right?

CHUCK TRIANO: Yes, loud and clear, Jami.

JAMI RUBIN: Okay. All right, great. Ian, just a follow-up on that question on M&A. The last time we met, you had highlighted the attractiveness of a tax inversion deal. In fact, you sort of signaled a preference for a tax inversion deal over an outright, say, US-based acquisition. And now with Congress looking less and less likely to act on tax reform and your stock holding up exceedingly well in this volatile healthcare space, particularly given how much specialty pharma has pulled back, where are you in your quest to deploy capital? Can you give us a sense of time lines? It just seems to me like a phenomenal time to use your stock. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Jami. I'd have to check the transcripts. I'm not quite sure that I expressed a preference either way. I think I expressed a preference for an Innovative deal. And I think I expressed a preference for any deal that creates the greatest shareholder value, which would have to be a combination of, as I said, pipeline, operational synergies, and financial synergies. I do think there has been an adjustment in the price of some of the specialty companies.

There's been adjustment in their price. I'm not so sure there's been an adjustment in their expectations of what they want to sell the company. But I do agree with you that BD is -- we do have the ability to do BD. It can be an important way of adding value. This management team is not afraid of taking bold steps. And we're looking at opportunities and when we make our decision as to what is the best way of enhancing value, we will move.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Can we move onto the next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Gregg Gilbert of Deutsche Bank.

CHUCK TRIANO: Good morning, Gregg.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. I've heard the two CEOs use the word bold in the last couple months. So we'll see how telling that is. Quick three-parter. First, is the Prevnar franchise, how big could that become and how durable do you think that could be? Secondly, Merck seems pretty excited about the SGLT2 program they licensed from you, especially in light of Lilly's outcomes benefit. So can you remind us what the economics are there, and anything you've said about the profile of that product? And lastly, on Retacrit, on that CRL, Ian, are there any signs that the FDA's grappling with policy or legal or precedent issues there, or is it simply just about the application and some data they want, nonclinical data? Thanks.

IAN READ: I'd ask Albert to talk about Prevnar. And then Frank will give you an idea of the contractual relationship on SGLT2, which I think is an under-appreciated asset and a huge opportunity for us and Merck in that marketplace. And then perhaps John could talk about what we're experiencing with the FDA on the biosimilars approval.

ALBERT BOURLA: Thank you, Ian. Gregg, thanks for the question. We are obviously very pleased with the results so far, and we continue to be excited with the opportunity. In the US, let me start. Two things stand out. The first is that we were able to make pneumonia vaccination an age-based rather than a seasonal event that used to be until now. The second, of course, that we were very successful catching up adults previously vaccinated with the old technology product.

For 2016, we continue to believe that the catch-up opportunity will still be robust, although may not grow versus 2015. We give you some greater context. There were 45 million eligible adults when the recommendation was issued. We estimate that we have penetrated approximately 25% to 30% of this population so far, and that were mostly previously vaccinated with the other product, with Pneumovax. While there are still many adults remaining, this cohort, as Ian said, is much harder to capture and will take more work to reach. But we do have programs to reach them and also have program to reach the population below 65 that is immuno-comprised and they can benefit from Prevnar 13.

Now in Europe we received approval for pneumonia and we continue to work with technical committees, country by country to obtain recommendations and reimbursement. These will be phased over phased over the next two years period, depending on the country. But in general I expect Europe to demonstrate strong growth.

IAN READ: Thank you. So in summary, we think it's a durable franchise and we're very, very enthusiastic about continuing to invest in and develop that marketplace. Frank, would you like to talk about the economics of the SGL2 contract with Merck?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. So I think just a summary is, think about it as a 60/40 split on profit. We get the 40% of the profit.

IAN READ: Okay. And then on the biosimilars Retacrit.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT GLOBAL ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: So thanks for your question, Gregg. Just as you heard in Ian's opening comments, we received a complete response letter for the epoetin Hospira BLA from the FDA on October 16 this year. I think importantly our initial assessment indicates no additional clinical studies are required at this point. So obviously we can't, to your wider question, comment on what the FDA or the position they're taking with other companies' biosimilars. We don't have any insight into that. All we can say is that we are currently reviewing our CRL, preparing our responses. We expect submission of a response sometime during the first half of 2016 with an expected six-month review under the BSUFA, Biosimilars User Fee Act.

IAN READ: Thank you, John.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John. Can we move on to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Mark Schoenebaum of Evercore ISI.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Good morning, Mark.

IAN READ: Operator, we seem to be getting a lag on the questions coming in.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Is that better. This is Mark.

IAN READ: Yes, I can hear you now, Mark.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: Okay. I'm sorry about that. First of all, congratulations on all the great share performance and the fantastic shareholder communication over the last year or so. A lot of my questions have been answered. But I thought I'd ask for a couple clarifications. Number one, Ian, I think, and again please correct me if I'm wrong, I think you've said before that if you were to do -- if you were to find a value-enhancing deal that wasn't an inversion, that you would like that deal to close before the end of 2016 because after the end of 2016 risks of policy -- legal statutory changes increase. I'd just like to know if you still feel that way.

And then on the R&D side, I heard a remarkable number, and I wanted to make sure I understood the number. The number was 16. What was that number? I heard it as you will have 16 immuno-oncology drugs in the clinic next year, or was it something else? And if that's really true --

IAN READ: 10. We'll have 10 novel drugs in the clinic next year, Mark, that are different. And we can ask Mikael to run through those in a moment. There's just too many to remember now.

And on the comment on taxes, given the proposed rule by the Treasury, which has not yet been implemented but has a retroactive date, clearly anything around this area you need to be -- one needs to be very careful on legislative changes. So if there was a deal to be done, I prefer it to be done under the present Congress, and then you're out of risk for the new Congress coming in and making changes in the rules. And of course you don't know what the confirmation of the new Congress will be. So you'd rather do it in a Congress what you do know who are setting the rules and what the rules are. If we could go to the 10 products, Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT WORLDWIDE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Yes, yes. So Mark, we have said that we'll have up to 10 by next year, and they include already in the clinic, avelumab, 4-1BB, OX40, CCR2. We're just now starting to enroll for our first triplet based on the vaccine, VIVR. We are moving swiftly with an additional PD1. We have starting to file an IND that we'll be dosing next year for our first bifunctional against [p-keterine], another small molecule immunomodulator ID-01. We have an NCSF antibody, which brings it to nine. And then we have a couple of programs that are running towards likely end of 2016, early 2017 which includes platforms such as additional bifunctional CAR-T, additional vaccines, and further checkpoint inhibitors. I think you got the sense it's very robust. It touches multiple modalities and gives us unprecedented opportunity for combinations.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: The next question is from Marc Goodman of UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: On Ibrance, I think I heard the metric that there's 50,000 patients on the drug. Can you just confirm that and tell us how that's changed over the past quarter? Second, maybe Frank, you can talk about the gross margin and just some of the underlying dynamics and movement in the gross margin so we can understand how to think about it, going forward, what's sustainable and what's one-time? And then third, maybe some of the pipeline Phase 2 assets that you haven't talked about before, but something that we should be keeping an eye on as we move into 2016? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. I'll ask Albert to clarify the number of patients on Ibrance.

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes. The number that I mentioned was 15,000 one-five, not the 50,000. And compared to the previous number in Q2, we had 9,000. So it's 15,000 up from 9,000 in Q2. Also to give you another statistic, it is 4,000 healthcare practitioners, up from 3,000 at the end of Q2.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the gross margin, the way I'll answer it is I'll do cost of goods sold, just a reciprocal. Last year Q3, 18.3%. This year Q3, 17.4%. So down 90 bips. What really drove that was operational improvement. There's a lot going on there, Mark. Think about foreign exchange in terms of cost of goods sold as a percentage as a good guy, lowers the cost of goods sold.

Our LOEs, particularly Celebrex, is a bad guy. So hurts our cost of goods sold in terms of we'll be increasing it. Those kind of mitigate each other. And then for the quarter, operational improvements really drove the number. Our guidance for the year, 18.7% to 19.2%. So what's really going on there, if you compare that to the year-to-date number, the 17.3% year-to-date cost of goods sold is foreign exchange. If you adjust for foreign exchange, that 17.3% becomes almost 18.5%, which is close to the guidance range. And then when you add in Hospira, some of our projected sales remainder of the year get a little bit of a lift in the number, which gets you to the 18.7% to 19.2%.

IAN READ: Okay. So I'd ask Mikael if he'd run through some of our near-term opportunities, and then take that and extend it a bit to the third one about Phase 2 opportunities.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Thank you very much. So near term, maybe a way to look upon it is we have really a few real exciting oncology platforms. You're well aware, and we discussed, Ibrance in breast, but also moving into head and neck and pancreatic and adenocarcinoma. The second platform oncology, obviously avelumab with I-O combination, 4-1BB, OX40, and we'll actually soon share data on 4-1BB in various combinations and also Inlyta that's used in I-O combination, in this case we have with Merk's Keytruda. We have two breakthrough drug designations that are moving toward registration planning, inotuzumab for ALL and Xalkori for ROS1-positive lung cancer, an indication where you have long duration of treatment. Now, these were four oncology platforms.

In non-oncology and near term are ertugliflozin that we briefly touched upon today. Tanezumab in pain, bococizumab (PCSK9) in cardiovascular, Xeljanx in UC, psoriatic arthritis. Coming towards the earlier pipeline we have less touch-up on -- we have a real exciting rare disease pipeline starting to emerge. Recently Phase 3 for Rivipansel, sickle cell disease. We have another PD9 inhibitor for prevention of sickle cell disease. And we have studies ongoing in Duchenne's and Huntington's with drugs that are touching these orphan diseases. And if data's very strong, there are potential to consider paths for accelerated approval. We heard from Ian mentioning that our C difficile Phase 2 study is now completely enrolled. We are really looking forward to see that data come next year.

Coming back to oncology, we have a new ADC PTK7 that show interesting data in Phase 1 going towards Phase 1B2. We have the follow-on drug to Xalkori, 3922, that have shown real robust signals in this part of the pipeline. And we starting next year multiple Phase 2 for our emerging immunokinase platform with IRAK4 where we think we may be industry-leading, highly selective JAK 3, dual acting JAK 1 [tick] 2, and also JAK 1 inhibitor that it will touch carefully selected indication where we think each profile has a unique purpose and fit-to-fill for the needs of patients. I hope that gave you a little bit of a flavor of an exciting, both near and midterm pipeline.

IAN READ: Thank you for that.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Mikael. Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Tim Anderson of Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you. A pipeline question, a non-market question and then a strategy question. Earlier in the year when we talked to you, you mentioned you have an oral PCSK9 in development. And if I remember right, you said we might see data in 2016, human data. I'm wondering if that's still the plan.

Second question goes back to Prevnar in adults. When we've, I think, looked in the past the benchmarks, healthy penetration into the adult population might be something like 60%. I'm wondering if you can say what you think realistic penetration of Prevnar in adults is likely to be in US and Europe?

And then last question is on potentially splitting up. Investors are obviously assuming that you'll do this at some point in 2017, or maybe later. But looking at it from the other end, what would be the counter arguments to splitting up? In other words, why might it make sense that Pfizer would not want to go down the route of splitting up? What are some of the biggest hurdles to overcome?

IAN READ: On the split, as we said before, we haven't made a decision. We said we'll make the decision in -- the latest we'll make it is the fourth quarter of 2016. And the four criteria we've set up is, are the businesses doing well inside Pfizer? Are they likely to be successful outside of Pfizer? Is there trapped value, and do we believe we can realize that trapped value? From the other end of not doing a split, if we were to do a major acquisition in the intervening time period, then it would certainly change the time lines of a split. It wouldn't necessarily change the logic of it, to the extent that that logic proves out. It would certainly -- it may even strengthen the logic for it. But that would be a decision that would be taken post any type of acquisition and post understanding the time lines that involves.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And the answer to all four of the questions that Ian summarized needs to be yes in terms of we will go down a split path. The answer to all four questions needs to be yes.

IAN READ: So on the pipeline question, Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: So thank you for remembering our exciting small molecule program against the PCSK9 target. Obviously we are increasingly excited about that space, as we have seen some of the struggle around the CETP drugs. And we are on track for dosing patients end of this year. And we have collected our IND document. So it's perfectly on track. And I should say, it's a novel mechanism that we have identified in our discovery work to intervene with the PCSK9 function, and we're very excited to get into humans and see its impact.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. Albert, on the Prevnar 13 Adult penetration question?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes. It's a very interesting question, and let me say that it seems that previous benchmarks or analogs of adult penetration have become somehow irrelevant after the very successful introduction of Prevnar Adult. And this was -- I will give you just some data to support my statement. But right now we have achieved a market sort of 87%. That's extremely high, as you can understand.

In pharmacies right now we are having a market of 90%. Keep in mind that pharmacies also, their overall share of participating in vaccinating and catching up patients has increased dramatically. I would say that we have disrupt this (inaudible) with our introductions.

Also our consumer activation and information campaigns have become very successful. And our commercials have run very, very high. As a result, the awareness among healthcare practitioners, for example, in US has exceeded 90% according to market research that we have run, which of course it's an exceptional -- exceptionally high. So I cannot predict what eventually will be the overall penetration of adults in this country, but I would say that we are very optimistic with the success of this first year as to how much we can achieve for the benefit of the patients in US.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Seamus Fernandez of Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks very much for the question. Just a couple quick ones. Historically you guys have provided some numbers around your thoughts on the size of the biosimilars market. Where do you see that? Can you just update us on your thoughts on the size of the overall biosimilars market, and where and when you really see the acceleration in that market occurring?

And then the second question. Can you just give us a sense again of the level of penetration that we're at with 15,000 patients, what does the Ibrance label currently approach? And then ultimately with the adjuvant setting in breast cancer, can you remind us again how much of the market that would open up? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you. Size of the biosimilars opportunity. John, would you like to comment on that, please?

JOHN YOUNG: Yes, sure. Thanks for the question, Seamus. Obviously as you know, the biosimilars market is still in the process of forming in different regions of the world. We're very excited to be playing a leading role in the formation of that market with the portfolio that we now have, both of our own legacy Pfizer pipeline of biosimilars, but also the end market portfolio of products from Hospira. Overall, the market opportunity that we see is around about $100 billion worth of revenues from currently patented branded biologics that will lose patent protection over the next five years. The global market for biosimiliars, looking at many analysts, is expected to grow from around about $1 billion today to somewhere in the order of $17 billion to $20 billion by 2020.

Clearly there are a number of factors that will drive and influence the evolution of that marketplace, such as substitutions, such as the labels, that extrapolation of labels that products that come to market will have. Overall I would just say that we believe that we're really well placed to draw on the heritage as a really strong biologics company in R&D and in manufacturing, which we believe will leave us to be very well placed in that market as it forms around the world.

IAN READ: Okay. So Albert, perhaps you could take us for a little bit vis-a-vis the layers of opportunities we see in a number of patients or potential patients, probably talking about the US and for Ibrance.

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, and I will also speak a little bit more generally. Let me start by saying how excited we are, of course, with this opportunity. The breast cancer is the most common cancer among women worldwide. There is 1.7 million diagnosed every year with breast cancer. And approximately 60% of them, which means approximately 1 million, are ER-positive, HER2-negative, an area that Ibrance has demonstrated efficacy so far. Now, with Ibrance we are working to build a broad franchise, and this is how you see it around breast cancer and beyond.

Speaking about breast cancer, we're starting with the first line and then we move to recurrent and then to early breast cancer. In the US we expect to expand, first of all, as the opportunity goes our markets are in the first line. Right now we have a market share of approximately 27%. And moving to next quarter, next year we expect to expand that even further. We also expect to have an accepted filing by FDA of our PALOMA 3 data this year, which we expect will give us registration for later lines of therapy in the metastatic setting.

In Europe we have a file and our filing was validated. The filing in Europe was based on both PALOMA 1 and PALOMA 3 data, which means that covers the entire metastatic population, not only the first line, as was our submission and current label in US. We're also working to expand our label to earlier phases of breast cancer, as I have indicated earlier, with currently three major Phase 3 studies running that includes basically thousands of patients. The PENELOPE B is a study that includes more than 1,000 patients. The PALACE, it is a study that will include almost 5,000 patients, 4,600. And the PILOT study, which is the first one that was introduced in that setting, is expected to come into primary completion around 2017.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Albert. Can we move onto the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Chris Schott of JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks for the questions. Just had two here. The first, if we think about business development potentially addressing kind of three broad areas of your business, seems like you're talking about improving top-line growth, driving operating synergies and/or improving your tax rate or financial synergies. I know these are all important, but how do you rank order these three in terms importance? Are some of those must haves and some of those nice to haves? Trying to understand as you look at the landscape what you go after, how you're weighing those three broad categories.

My second question was on inversion, which has been talked about a lot. But just in the current political environment where there's a lot of negative headlines around kind of pharma already out there, how do you think about political risk of inversion just in this kind of election season and with a lot of noise around the drug industry kind of already out there? Thanks so much.

IAN READ: So I think Chris, the best way to think about this is that we want to target the maximum return on investment and it's a sort of a mix-and-match combination of, as you said, financial, pipeline, growth, financial synergies, cost synergies, and the sort of puzzle is to define the target company whose price and those three combinations allows us the highest rate of return on the disposition of precious capital.

So I won't -- and then on the negative issues of pharma, I'm a little -- I'd like to have a few words about that. I think there has been some negative press on particular pharmaceutical companies. I don't see that society is saying they don't want innovation, and society is not looking for cures for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and cancer. And so I think our industry continues to remain firmly in good stead in the sense that we remain a low percentage of the healthcare cost. So we are, I believe, the most efficient way of dealing with costs in the healthcare system. And so I think public policy is squarely behind having an innovative industry.

Certainly I think we can make the case that this industry risk-adjusted is appropriately profitable. It's PE and return on capital and return on investments are, I think, appropriate inside the averages of the stock market. So I think the returns for pharmaceutical companies are reasonable in that context. So I do believe that we have a lot of positive arguments to make when having this dialogue with society.

So around the political ramifications, the shareholders of Pfizer expect us to maximize the return, and the employees of Pfizer want to have a robust, successful Company in the future. Their jobs and their careers depend upon it. So part of the leadership of this is to ensure this Company can be successful in the future. To be successful in the future, we need to have a competitive tax rate. So that is why it's an important issue for us.

CHRIS SCHOTT: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Colin Bristow of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I think a lot's been covered, but a couple more on the SGLT2. How should we think about your positioning here, given you'll be fourth to market and you won't have any CV data until the 1920 (sic) time frame. The feedback we've been getting is it's largely a Jardiance-specific benefit until proven otherwise. So to what extent do you rely on a competitor showing CV outcomes data to confer class effect, given you'll potentially be the last to have a CV readout?

Then second question. Last quarter you stated that you see biotech valuations as priced to perfection in many ways. Clearly there's been a significant adjustment since then. In light of this it would be great to get your current thoughts on valuations and how is this changing how you're thinking about your strategy with regard to M&A and the potential geography of targets. Thank you.

IAN READ: Yes Colin, on the biotech I think there has been a readjustment in pricing. As I said, I think it's been a readjustment in the stock price. I'm not sure yet there's been a readjustment in what investors and the leaders of these companies believe their company may be worth in a transactional situation. I think if we have to wait a little while to see if the new stock valuations settle in in the reality in management's belief in the value of the companies. And then the second question was on SGLT2. I think Geno can take us through some of the logic on that.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Sure. Colin, we're very pleased about the SGLT program and the recent findings from the BI-Lilly program on cardiovascular outcomes. We have a cardiovascular outcome trial underway. In fact, it's fully enrolled already with our SGLT partnership with Merck. In light of the new findings from BI and Lilly, we are considering additional work that we may do to further augment the package that we're pursuing with our program. We have, in addition to the single entity development program, a combination, fixed dose combination with Januvia and with metformin. And of course with the market position of Januvia in the diabetes market, we think we'll be very competitive with our data package and we look forward to entering that market.

IAN READ: I'd like to say I'm extremely pleased that Pfizer is doing a partnership with Merck. Two great companies with great heritage in this space, and we look forward to being very successful with this combination product.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian and Geno. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Steve Scala of Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I have three. The JAVELIN trial of avelumab in second line non-small cell lung cancer has a primary completion of 2021. So I imagine there are interim looks between now and then. Maybe you could tell us when those interim looks are, or when the first one is perhaps?

Secondly on the CDK4/6 inhibitor landscape, I think the general view is that the Novartis agent is not differentiated but the Lilly drug does look quite unique and potentially a threat to palbociclib. I think the recent breakthrough designation was notable. Would like your view. Lastly, thoughts on the recent baricitinib versus Humira study and its potential impact on Xeljanz. Why isn't this a risk to Xeljanz? Thank you very much.

IAN READ: Okay. Perhaps we'll ask Mikael to talk a little bit about the CDK4/6 competitive space and what we know and don't know.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, thank you. So I think I will start, and a little bit punctuate what Albert said, that palbociclib is the only CDK4/6 inhibitor studied in multiple randomized control studies, and has such a profound program for advanced recurrent early breast, and multiple indication also beyond breast. It's a highly selective drug for CDK4 and 6. We do think hitting both CDK4 and 6 is preferable. And it's very tolerable, which is important for a drug that is playing in patients from first line up to early breast cancer.

What we have seen from the abemaciclib drug is data from a single arm in very advanced patients through multiple chemo, almost a salvage line. And that's obviously positive for patients being at that very difficult advanced stage. We know that it's a drug that hits much broader than the CDK4 and 6, that characterize as you rightfully said, palbo and ribociclib. So for me it's kind of a different drug class; broader, less specific, and may play very well in this more advanced setting where the data has been currently. And obviously there has been some tolerability issues reported, which may reflect this broader profile. It's very difficult to comment on competitor drugs. So like always, we say let's have data over the next few years and experience from patients guide us. But I thought that maybe gave you an opportunity for us to summarize the status today.

IAN READ: Yes, and I think one of the competitive positions we're taking is to accelerate a very broad in-depth clinical trial program behind Ibrance to ensure that physicians have a broad experience with multiple indications and get in early and establish the standard of care there. So I think that's our answer to, if there is a competitive threat, that's how we are dealing with it. Would you, Geno, talk about Xeljanz?

GENO GERMANO: Sure Steve, the baricitinib data that was recently released showed the superiority on ACR20 and the DAS28 end points. And in our own program, as you know we had a trial including Humira where we showed strong numerical separation, not only on ACR20 but on ACR50 and ACR70, more difficult end points to demonstrate a difference. Now, that trial was not designed as a superiority trial. It's more of a comparative trial. But that led us to initiate a head-to-head superiority study with Xeljanz in RA compared to Humira where we're testing both monotherapy and Xeljanz with methotrexate against Humira with methotrexate. So it's a robust study. We'll be reading out in the first quarter of 2017.

We think that that will help shed more light on the performance of this drug in this setting, this clinical setting. The end point for our head-to-head is ACR50. As you know, Ian mentioned before, we have the once-a-day dossier filed with the FDA now with a PDUFA date of February 2016. And then we have our post-marketing safety study that also has arms with Enbrel and Humira in. So we'll have really good comparative data over the short and medium term to put these drugs into perspective. Frankly, I think that the JAK pathway is a powerful pathway that offers the potential for strong efficacy. And we think that that will play out with both baricitinib and Xeljanz in the long run.

IAN READ: I think, Geno, we like our position of having the opportunity to look at with and without methotrexate as well, which is maybe if they ever had to take methotrexate, they'll understand why people don't like to take it. Albert, would you like to discuss the JAVELIN question?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes. Ian, I do not have handy the date of when the interim analysis will happen in this study. And anyway, as you know, these are event-driven so you never know what eventually will happen. What I wish I could tell you, this is as you know, a second line lung cancer study. We are planning to initiate the first line study this year hopefully, and that will have an expected readout much earlier, so around 2017.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you very much. Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Vamil Divan of Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great. Thanks so much for taking my questions. So I just had a couple, one building on what you were just talking about with the JAK inhibitors and Xeljanz. Can you just give a little more detail on the decision you made to sort of focus your priorities? You said you're stopping development of Crohn's and ankylosing spondylitis, focusing on other indications. Was that something specific to the product? Was it safety, efficacy of the product in those indications? Or is more of a kind of view of the commercial competitive dynamics in those other indications?

And then second. Just one, if I could, on Eliquis. Just wondered if you could give a little more color on what you've been seeing there. Haven't really touched on that on this call yet. And then wondering if you expect any sort of negative impact, given the approval of paroxetine, the universal agent for Pradaxa recently. I was just wondering, do you think that might impact physicians prescribing over the next year or so prior to having an antidote for Eliquis (inaudible) available? Thanks.

IAN READ: Geno, those two questions, please?

GENO GERMANO: Sure. Let me start with Xeljanz. As we continue to see the studies readout, obviously we become more informed about how this agent is working in these various patient populations and various disease states. Our decisions on prioritization are made on the basis of the data that we're seeing, the emerging profile of the drug, again, across different patient populations. And also the timing of and the amount of work that's required to continue these programs. So it's a number of factors that has led to the decisions that we've made.

We are very excited about continuing in the RA and the psoriatic arthritis and the ulcerative colitis areas where we're very encouraged with what we've seen so far. And these are very large, robust market opportunities. So we're looking forward to a bright future for Xeljanz.

With regard to Eliquis, frankly we're continuing to see Eliquis take share in the NOAC market around the world. We're a leading product now in a number of countries. We're a leader with cardiologists in many more countries. We established our foothold in the stroke prevention market and now in the thromboembolism market. We're continuing to make inroads in primary care. So that engine just keeps rolling.

With regard to the antidote, the feedback that we've gotten from the physicians in the marketplace is that it's a nice to have and they welcome it. We don't expect it to have a major disruptive effect in the marketplace.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno. Next question, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Andrew Baum of CRTI.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: It's Andrew Baum from Citi, actually. Three questions, short ones. First, Mikael, do you have a SERD anywhere near the clinic? Second, with regard to biosimilars, I'd be interesting in Pfizer's view on interchangeability. Is it economically desirable within the US landscape, given there's a much likely rapid erosion of revenues as a consequence? Finally for Ian, in relation to inversion, I note that Medtronic after inverting and said Covidien seemingly have had to import $10 billion worth of offshore cash with only $500 million tax bill. Given this did not fall at 60% level, does this mean that there's still surprising amount you can do despite being higher than that threshold?

IAN READ: Well, let's answer the questions in the order they were taken.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: So yes, I assume you're considering what else in our pipeline could combine with Ibrance. And we do have, as you know, the PALOMA 3 with a SERD, fulvestrant. We have some internal activities on (inaudible) SERD, but nothing that allow me to give you a date when it could or could not get to the clinic. I wanted, though, to say that we have exploration in the clinic with a PR3K emptor inhibitor that we have ourselves that have a unique tolerability profile because it's given intermittently. We do explore with internal and potential partner drugs how you could combine, but I would probably be more keen to go beyond the estrogen receptor blockade and look for mechanisms that could be more much additive, synergistic, when we develop the CDK4/6 franchise further.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. John, could you discuss the interchangeability issue?

JOHN YOUNG: Yes, Thank you. So I mean, first of all, let's just say that we view biosimilars as playing a key role in the future of healthcare, and they can address the evolving needs of patients, physicians and payers. On the interchangeability question specifically, I think our view as a Company is that interchangeability should be based on science and under physician supervision since biosimilars are not the same as the reference products. The traditional paradigms that you might see in a small molecule of interchangeability and automatic substitution just don't apply.

We believe that regulators and also payers should and will look at the data specific to each individual biologic molecule. That's why we have comprehensive development programs for our biosimilars, so that we can actually help physicians and patients to be able to make informed decisions about how to appropriately use those molecules. Our key point here is that we realize there's a need for more scientific progress to make interchangeability feasible, and for that to really be driven by the data for individual molecules.

IAN READ: Thank you. Frank, on the various flavors of inversion?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, I think the best way I'll answer this, Andrew, is your question I think is actually a good example of what I said before, which is it's really target-to-target specific in terms of how much of the benefit you can preserve of an inversion if you're an in betweener, in terms of less than 80% and greater than 60%. The example you gave is, I think, a good example of where benefit is being preserved. But it just punctuates my point before about it's really target-by-target, company-by-company specific.

IAN READ: I'd like to point out that these rules are proposed rules. They have not been triggered.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Operator, if we could take our last question, please?

OPERATOR: Yes. Your final question comes from Alex Arfaei of BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, and thank you for taking the questions. And congratulations on a strong quarter. Ian, just building upon your earlier comments on trapped value and the split decision, is it fair to say that the ongoing strong performance of your Innovative business strengthens the split argument, since there does appear to be a significant trapped value there? So in terms of a go/no go decision, I guess, is it fair to say that the split argument is strengthening from your perspective? And then on immuno-oncology, given your focus on combinations, how are you thinking about pricing in the current environment, given how the first generation products have priced? Thank you.

IAN READ: I think on the split, to the extent of both businesses are doing well and can command premium PE ratios, if those PE ratios aren't being seen in the combined stock, then it would be an argument to say that this trapped value could be released by a split. I think we'll look at that and look at how the market is pricing the Pfizer Inc. stock compared to what would look -- what the individual stock should trade at if their PEs were unfettered, so to speak, by being on their own.

And then I do think you're right, that I believe that one of the competitive advantages will be if a company owns the sequence of treatments and the combination products. So I really see in oncology, it becoming a chronic disease where you move from one combination to the next to the next to the next. And so the ability to both price those combinations individually and price if you have enough in your portfolio to also price a longer period of different treatments is going to be extremely important in -- as a competitive ability.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks Ian, and thank you everybody for your attention on the call.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's Third-Quarter 2015 earnings conference call. You may all disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151028ebar002e7
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,582 words
   PD
28 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's second-quarter 2015 performance.

As usual, I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide R&D, Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology, and Consumer; Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2015, which is located in the Investor Presentations Section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements, and actual results could differ materially from those projected in these statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly-comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our current report on Form 8-K, dated today.

We'll now make some prepared remarks, and then we'll move to a Q&A session. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck, and thank you for joining our call this morning. During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter, provide some comments on key areas of focus within the pipeline, and close with a few words about business development and the pending Hospira acquisition.

Starting with the quarter, it was another quarter of strong operational performance. For the third consecutive quarter we saw operational revenue growth, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, and despite LOE headwinds. We continue to see solid revenue growth from our newer products, as a result of the investments we've been making in R&D and our commercial operations.

Specifically in the second quarter as compared to the same period last year, Eliquis alliance revenues nearly tripled on a global basis, and Xeljanz revenues nearly doubled. Prevnar 13 revenues in the US increased 87%, primarily due to continued strong uptake in Prevnar 13 in adults, with most of the growth in the overall Prevnar 13 franchise coming from the adult indication in this quarter. We have done an excellent job for the first half of this year of getting to patients and capturing the potential of Prevnar 13 adults in the US, as evidenced by the outstanding year-to-date performance, which has been primarily driven by the catch-up opportunity.

Over the next few years, we believe this catch-up opportunity in the US will be robust. However, we will likely need to expend more effort to reach these individuals, and the opportunity will moderate over time, as the catch-up opportunity becomes fully realized. And given current demographics and aging trends, approximately 4 million Americans will turn 65 each year, and a part of these adults will be part of our immunization effort.

As we move through the catch-up population and get to a more normalized adult immunization rate domestically, we'll be expanding our efforts to capture expected new growth outside the US. Given the aging demographic trends, we expect to obtain several pneumonia recommendations and reimbursements between 2016 and 2018 in many international markets.

Ibrance continues to be well-received by oncologists treating postmenopausal women with ER-positive HER2 negative advanced breast cancer, with approximately 3,000 healthcare practitioners already prescribing Ibrance. This is up from 800 at the end of the first quarter. Our current first line market share in this patient population was approximately 22% during the quarter, up from 10% during the first quarter.

We look forward to filing for approval in the EU later this year, and are working to add the data from the PALOMA-3 study to our US label for women with HR-positive HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer, whose disease has progressed during or after endocrine therapy. I would note that all of these products I just mentioned are now meaningful contributors to our business. We also saw quarter-over-quarter operational growth from several of our in-line key products, including Lyrica, Sutent, Xalkori and Inlyta.

In our consumer business, we saw quarter-over-quarter operational growth from several brands including Centrum, Advil, Robitussin and Emergen-C. We are seeing strong performance from Nexium OTC, despite a decline this quarter, due to the non-recurrence of initial retailer stocking associated with the launch last May. Since its launch, Nexium has generated revenues of approximately $300 million, making it one of the largest and most successful Rx to OTC switches.

Regarding other Rx to OTC opportunities, we have received the top line results from the Lipitor Actual Use Trial that was completed last December. The results show that co-primary endpoints were not achieved.

Based on our analysis of the data and recent feedback from the FDA on the overall program, we have decided to terminate the program. That said, we continue to evaluate other products for potential Rx to OTC switches. And within emerging markets, revenues increased 6% operationally compared to the year-ago quarter, driven by operational growth in Prevnar, Lyrica, and Lipitor.

This quarter was a further example of our track record of a solid operating performance. Given our strong execution across the businesses during the first half of the year, coupled with an improved operational outlook for the remainder of this year, we are raising the midpoints of our 2015 financial guidance for reported revenue by $500 million, and for reported diluted EPS by $0.03 per share and adjusted EPS by $0.04.

As we enter the second half of this year, our strategy, focus and priorities remain unchanged. Top line growth remains a priority. Over the last three quarters we have seen top line operational growth on a total Company basis.

Recent product launches in key in-line products have performed well, while the impact from the remaining LOEs has diminished. For example, the impact from the Celebrex LOE will be annualized after another two quarters, and Zyvox shortly after that. Once this happens, we'll have put the most significant LOEs behind us, and expect to return to a more measured cycle of product loss of exclusivity.

We remain steadfast in our efforts to deliver the next wave of potential new innovative therapies over the coming years. The areas where we see the largest potential to benefit patients, and where we're focusing our resources include building a strong immuno-oncology portfolio. Through our through our agreement with Merck KGaA, we believe we have one of the most comprehensive IO platforms in development in the pharma industry today. We have -- we expect to have five different IO drugs in the clinic this year, and up to 10 different drugs by 2016.

The key targets include avelumab, the anti PD-L1, OX40, 4-1BB, our Vaccine Based Immunotherapy Regime, CCR2, IDO-1, and several Bifunctional antibodies. We believe that these combinations are the key to better patient outcomes in IO, and given the breadth of our assets, we think we are well-positioned to win here. We will be collaborating on up to 20 studies with Merck KGaA, and we plan to have up to six immunology Phase 3 trials ongoing by the end of the year across several tumor types, including non-small cell lung cancer, ovarian, renal, bladder, and gastric. Our second-line non-small cell lung cancer registration study is currently recruiting.

And where possible, we will be looking to accelerate these studies. For example, we are planning to move quickly into a registration study with avelumab in combination with Inlyta in kidney cancer later this year.

We also continue to build our palbo franchise, moving our R&D efforts into early stages of the treatment paradigm, as well as in non-breast cancer indications. In cardiovascular, we have a comprehensive Phase 3 trial program for bococizumab, our investigational PCSK9 inhibitor, with potential to lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and improve cardiovascular outcomes. We anticipate our Lipitor-lowering trials will complete in 2016, and we estimate that our CV outcomes data will be available in the first half of 2018.

The outcome studies are time-to-event trials, so it is difficult to predict exact dates, but we anticipate this will be consistent with the timing of other industry outcome studies expected by our peers. Our ertugliflozin Phase 3 program is well underway, and given Januvia's recent positive CV outcomes clinical trials results, we remain enthusiastic about the demand potential for the ertugliflozin-Januvia combination, in an area of significant patient need.

In vaccines, we recently started a Phase 2b study for a staph aureus vaccine, and depending upon the results, it could serve as a registrational study. Also, this month, we initiated a Phase 2 study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of our investigational C difficile vaccine. Both of these vaccines could be key to stemming the spread of the leading causes of serious healthcare-associated infections.

In immunology, the FDA accepted our review for a supplementary new drug application for Xeljanz once-a-day modified release tablets. Our PDUFA date is February of next year. If approved, it would bring us one step closer to offering the first and only once-a-day oral JAK kinase inhibitor treatment for those living with moderate to severe RA, who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate. We believe this will be an important product modification.

In rare diseases, we enrolled the first patients in Phase 3 clinical trials assessing the efficacy and safety of rivipansel, for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease who are six years of age or older. And additional clinical studies are underway for prevention of sickle cell crisis disease. We believe this was built on our strength in researching and bringing to market therapies for hematological rare diseases, based on our deep history of hemophilia.

In biosimilars, we started a Phase 3 clinical trial of our potential biosimilar to adalimumab, making a total of five monoclonal biosimilars now in Phase 3 development. In sterile injectables, we're excited about the opportunity to combine Pfizer's branded portfolio in global commercial organization, with Hospira's demonstrated R&D capability, and manufacturing capacity of sterile injectable products, and this will occur upon the close of the acquisition.

Overall, as a result of the work we have done to focus our R&D efforts in the areas that we believe offer the greatest potential for therapeutic benefit and chance for commercial success, we are building a stronger portfolio on behalf of our patients that we believe will create value for our shareholders.

Turning now to a few words on business development. It remains an enabler of our strategies, and as I've said before, is not a strategy on its own. While we are seeing strong performance from our recent product launches, over the next few years, we are looking at business development as a way to invest in generating sustained near-term and future growth, knowing that the next wave of our potential major registrations or launches won't happen till 2017. In the interim, we have the financial capacity to actually seek out the right deals at the right price, that will create value for our shareholders.

We are optimistic that we can find these deals as we go through the period to 2017. In keeping with this philosophy, we have proactively evaluated virtually all of the deals announced this year, and have chosen to pursue only those that efficiently use capital to strengthen the business, drive growth, and accelerate value. For example, we have entered into several agreements year-to-date that have bolstered our scientific integral capabilities, and provided us with the potential for new growth opportunities. Of particular note are the two most significant transactions with Merck KGaA in immuno-oncology, and the pending acquisition of Hospira.

Regarding Hospira we are proceeding on track and are awaiting regulatory approval from several jurisdictions. We continue to expect the transaction to close in the second half of the year.

In closing, I am pleased with our strong financial position, new and in-line product performance, pipeline advancements, and recent business development activity. We are performing well, and for the remainder of this year, we will focus on service, strengthening both our innovative and established businesses, to best position them for their long-term success. I'll now turn it over to Frank to take you through the financial details of the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast.

Second-quarter 2015 reported revenues were approximately $11.9 billion, and reflect year-over-year operational growth of $125 million, or 1%, mainly driven by the strong performance of Prevnar 13 adult, Eliquis, Ibrance, and Xeljanz, all of which are early in their life cycles. The addition of vaccines acquired from Baxter in 2014, and operational growth of 6% in emerging markets, mainly due to Lipitor and Prevnar 13.

Reported revenues were unfavorably impacted by the loss of exclusivity of Celebrex and Zyvox in the US, and Lyrica in certain developed European markets. Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.56 versus $0.58 in the year-ago quarter. The decrease was primarily due to the $0.06 negative impact of foreign exchange, and partially offset by a lower effective tax rate, and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, which declined by 201 million shares versus the year-ago quarter, due to our share repurchase program. Which includes the impact of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in February of 2015, and completed in July.

I want to point out that excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, adjusted diluted EPS would have increased by approximately 6%. Reported diluted EPS was $0.42 compared with $0.45 in the year-ago quarter, due to the previously mentioned factors and the unfavorable impact of higher legal charges and acquisition-related costs associated with the pending acquisition of Hospira versus the year ago quarter, as well as charges incurred during the second quarter of 2015 for legal entity alignment activities. Partially offset by lower restructuring and other charges associated with cost reduction and productivity initiatives, lower purchase accounting adjustments, and a lower effective tax rate versus the year-ago quarter.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted second-quarter reported revenues by approximately $1 billion or 8%, and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses in the aggregate by $518 million or 7%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted second-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.06 compared with the year-ago quarter.

Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments. In the second quarter, Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 8% operationally year-over-year, due to the strong performance of recently-launched products including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz in the US, and the continued strong performance of Viagra in the US and Lyrica in the US and Japan, which were partially offset by declines of Rapamune and BeneFIX in the US.

Income before taxes increased 9% operationally, due to the operational increase in revenues and the 2% operational decrease in cost of sales, partially offset by a 6% operational increase in SI&A expenses, primarily due to additional promotional investment in certain in-line and recently launched products, and the 21% operational increase in R&D, reflecting incremental investments in our late-stage pipeline, primarily for bococizumab.

Second-quarter VOC revenues increased 29% operationally, due to the 52% operational revenue growth from our global vaccines business as a result of Prevnar 13, which grew 87% in the US, due to continued strong uptake in adults and 10% internationally, and the inclusion of Baxter's marketed vaccines in Europe. A 36% operational increase in oncology revenues, driven by the launch of Ibrance in the US in February, and to a lesser extent by Sutent, Inlyta, and Xalkori.

Income before taxes increased 51% operationally, mainly due to increased revenues and associated improvement in gross margin, and a 16% operational decrease in R&D expenses as a result of lower clinical spend for Trumenba, Prevnar 13 adult, and certain oncology products, which were partially offset by a 15% operational increase in SI&A expenses, due to increased investment in both the Prevnar 13 and Ibrance launches.

In the second quarter, Global Established Products revenues decreased 14% operationally, mainly due to the loss of exclusivity, and immediate multi-source generic competition for Celebrex in the US. in December of 2014, generic competition for Zyvox in the US, and Lyrica in certain developed markets in Europe beginning in the first half of 2015, and to a lesser extent, from continued generic competition for Lipitor in developed markets, and the termination of the Spiriva co-promotion agreement in most countries, including the US in April of 2014. All of these were partially offset by operational growth of 2% in emerging markets, primarily driven by Lipitor.

Income before taxes declined 17% operationally, due to the decrease in revenues, a 1.5 percentage point operational increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues due to unfavorable change in product mix, a 3% operational increase in R&D expenses reflecting increased spending in our biosimilars and sterile injectables development programs, largely offset by lower post-marketing clinical trial expenses, all of which were partially offset by an 11% operational decrease in SI&A expenses, driven by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.

Because of our strong operational performance and improved operational outlook for the remainder of the year, we are raising the midpoint of our 2015 guidance ranges for reported revenues by $500 million, and the midpoint of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance by $0.04. We now expect reported revenues to be in the range of $45 billion to $46 billion, and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.01 to $2.07.

We also now expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.38 to $1.47. In addition, based on our year-to-date results, we now expect cost of sales as a percentage of revenue to be in the range of 18% to 18.5% versus our previous expectation of 18.5% to 19.5%.

To reflect incremental expenses for ongoing Phase 3 programs, we now expect R&D expenses to be in the range of $7.3 billion to $7.6 billion versus $6.9 billion to $7.4 billion previously. It's important to note that any changes in foreign exchange rates since mid-April, which exclude the impact of potential devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar, did not materially impact our latest guidance.

I also want to point out that we are continuing to absorb an estimated $3.4 billion negative impact due to continuing product losses of exclusivity and declining alliance revenues, and an estimated $3.3 billion negative impact from unfavorable changes in essentially all foreign exchange rates relative to the US dollar, compared to foreign exchange rates in 2014.

Moving on to key takeaways, we achieved another quarter of solid financial performance, primarily driven by products that are in the early stages of their life cycles, Prevnar 13 adult, Eliquis, Ibrance and Xeljanz. Also I want to point out that this is the third consecutive quarter of operational revenue growth.

We have raised the midpoints of our 2015 reported revenue and EPS guidance ranges to reflect our strong operational performance and improved operational outlook for the remainder of 2015. We achieved several key R&D milestones since our first-quarter update, including FDA acceptance of our NDA for Xeljanz once-daily, the anticipated PDUFA date February of 2016, and the presentation of data for our immuno-oncology portfolio at ASCO, which included 10 abstracts on avelumab with our partner Merck KGaA, and results from our Phase 1 study of our anti-4-1BB antibody.

We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. To date, in 2015, we've returned $9.6 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, and we continue to expect to return approximately $13 billion to shareholders in 2015 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.

Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2015 and beyond. Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank and Ian, for the summary. With that, operator, can we please poll for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: First, on the immuno-oncology franchise, while you're somewhat behind, Ian, can you comment on some of the aspects of your strategy in IO that might not be fully appreciated by the investment community? And my second question, perhaps for either of you, on the subject of what you call business and legal entity alignment activities, those costs are growing strongly. Can you offer any color as to when those activities might wrap up, or at least what some key mile markers are along the way on that process? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Gregg. We believe that we will be first in some tumor types with the PD-L1 from Merck. But we also feel it's very important to understand that we're just at the beginning of this immuno-oncology wave, and we have, as I have commented previously, a substantial number of assets that can be combined and added, both with immuno-oncology assets, and with the backbone targeted therapies or chemotherapy, or with Inlyta, or with Xalkori, with Ibrance potentially.

So we feel that as this market develops, what's going to be really important is the ability to have combination products, and the ability to have a fuller control of the total value, or the total pricing of those combination products to the payers. So we believe that Pfizer will be very well-positioned, with multiple combinations of immuno-oncology assets, and combinations with its own in-line assets, to be very effective in those combinations. Frank, do you want to talk about the --

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. On the business and legal entity alignment, let me run the numbers first, and I'll answer the question. Which is for the quarter, we spent $63 million year-to-date, $164 million in business and legal entity alignment cost. I said previously, we forecasted a spend of approximately $400 million for the year, we'll be give or taking that range of approximately $400 million. The spend will continue, obviously for the rest of 2015 through 2016, we've talked about a decision on alignment in the fourth quarter of 2016, by no later than the fourth quarter of 2016 so spending obviously would continue through then, at which point, we make a determination going forward based on the decision.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Next question please, operator?

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: First question is, can you give us your latest thoughts on what's going on in China, as well as just the broader emerging markets? Second, in the press release, it talked about for Prevnar, the GAVI shipments and emerging markets had some special programs. Can you give us a sense of how much of that was one-timers versus what we should expect ongoing? And then I think you mentioned how much FX hit your expenses but can you carve out the gross margin specifically, and how much that had an impact? Thanks.

IAN READ: We remain, as we said, optimistic about the long-term in China and the emerging markets. We continue to see a secular movement to middle-class and wealth creation. I would ask John Young, who manages the majority of our business in the emerging markets, to make some comments specifically on China, and perhaps his view of the opportunities more broadly in emerging markets.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Thanks for the question, Marc. I think Ian said it head on in our view, in summary form. It's obviously a significant population, 1.3 billion people. We continue to see strong economic growth, albeit moderating economic growth, but we envisage that economic growth will continue.

And I think as Ian has already flagged, we see a continued commitment from the Chinese government to expand access to healthcare, to quality healthcare, to citizens. We don't see that trend halting in the short to medium, even the longer-term. And so we believe that actually for manufacturers such as ourselves, who are positioned well in China with a strong existing base, a strong network of joint ventures, and a portfolio frankly that is well-suited to the needs of Chinese patients, ranging from our Innovative portfolio with oncology medicines and vaccines in the future. As well as today's portfolio, such as Lipitor, which is obviously a leading treatment to help to manage cardiovascular disease, which is a growing concern for Chinese patients.

So when you sum all of that up, we knew that we will continue to see some pressures on our business in China and pricing. We factor that into our forward-looking views. But we continue to see China being a significant opportunity for future growth.

IAN READ: Okay. Similar story has played out in most of the emerging markets too in differing forms. Albert, do you want to talk about the GAVI shipments, and those items that were raised?

ALBERT BOURLA, PRESIDENT OF VACCINES, ONCOLOGY & CONSUMER, PFIZER INC.: Yes. I wouldn't call them one-time. What is happening with the GAVI business is that there is volatility. Volatility depends when CDC will place an order, when GAVI will place an order, or when NIP will occur, so this volatility will continue. This is the normal course of a vaccines business. But in general, the outlook is doing very well this quarter, with 5% overall growth.

IAN READ: Thank you. Frank, on the FX?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. Marc, lots of moving parts, obviously, that impact gross margin. Favorable items would be things like our oncology and alliance revenue growth. An unfavorable item would be our US LOEs.

But maybe the easiest way to do this is macro level with numbers. Q2 last year, our cost of sales as a percentage of revenue, 18.9%. This quarter, 17.9%. If we remove foreign exchange from this quarter, which reduced cost of sales by $255 million, that 17.9% becomes 18.4%, so roughly flat year-over-year. If you go year-to-date, last year, year-to-date 17.9%, this year, year-to-date, 17.3%. If we remove foreign-exchange, that 17.3% becomes 18.2%. Once again, relatively flat year-over-year, with a lot of moving parts impacting the number.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. Operator, next question, please?

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thanks. If I could go back to the topic of M&A, and I know you made some comments earlier. Watching the Big Pharma industry for almost 20 years, seems like Big Pharma companies have very often not participated in biotech M&A, because there's been this long-standing sense that the valuations are too high. And if I listen to what several companies say, now at the current point in time, several Big Pharma companies again, raise that concern. If I look at what Pfizer has bought over the years, it's generally been either Big Pharma companies or other types of targets, like Hospira.

So my question to you is, how do you currently view valuations in the biotech space, and have you loosened up at all on your valuation framework, such that you think you can find value in the biotech landscape at the current levels of valuation? And then the second question is on Enbrel, and whether you expect to see any pressure caused by biosimilar Remicade now being available in Europe, whether you expect pressure in year 2016 or 2017, or maybe even in the current year?

IAN READ: Okay. I'll make some comments on the M&A, and then I'll ask Geno to comment on Enbrel in Europe. Tim, I believe that the marketplace is extremely efficient, and that the valuations in biotech are in many ways, priced to perfection. But of the deals that have been done, we have looked at them. The deals work for some companies because of their portfolio, because of their ability to achieve synergies in ways that we couldn't.

We do remain disciplined on our cost of capital. We think long-term that's important, that people invest in Pfizer expect their return -- risk-adjusted return on the cost of capital. That means that we don't expect to find value in the marketplace. There are always opportunities. We stand ready. We have the cash, we have the capability, we have the management team. We are continually looking for those opportunities.

As I say, I'm optimistic that we'll be able to deploy our capital in a way that will increment value to shareholders. I would say, further, that if you look at the Established Products business and the Innovative business, if there were two projects and both of them were risk-adjusted equal, our inclination would be to do, for portfolio reasons something in Innovative space rather than the Established space, given that we've done the Hospira acquisition for Established. So once again, I'm very well aware that there is an active market of business development. We think we've done the ones that are prudent. We evaluate all our opportunities, and we're optimistic that we're going to find and have sufficient courage to find those opportunities that come into the marketplace. So with that, I'll pass it over to Geno to look at Enbrel.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Sure, Tim. Enbrel continues to do well. We had good 2% operational growth this quarter outside the United States, on a very large base, so the business continues to deliver for us. With regard to Remicade biosimilars, we're not seeing a significant impact on the Enbrel business. Given the different administration routes, Remicade being infusion, and Enbrel and Humira and others being self-injected therapies, we don't see a lot of overlap but there. There's a lot of experimentation going on country by country, so there's always a possibility that we'll see some new things happening, but overall, we're not seeing or expecting a major shift in the Enbrel business related to the Remicade biosimilar.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Geno. Operator, can we move to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Ian, in your prepared remarks, you signaled M&A activity focused on top line growth bridging the gap to 2017 filings. Two questions related to that. Are you backing off from breaking up the Company of strategy you outlined -- or certainly outlined the optionality for a couple years ago? Where are you on that?

And number two how big would you consider going? Can you throw out some parameters there in terms of size? Is it all about top line growth? Is synergies a big consideration, and also, you had talked before about tax inversions being an important part of that equation too, so if you can put that in perspective? And then my last question relates to Lipitor OTC. Now that that product doesn't appear to be going forward, would you consider putting your Consumer business up for sale? Thanks.

IAN READ: Jami, as always three big questions. On the break-up, we have not changed our views on wanting to have the optionality of the breakup. We continue to spend considerable amounts of money preparing and putting ourselves in a place to trigger that optionality if we take that decision. And as I said, we've laid out the criteria for that, which includes are the businesses doing well? Do we think they could do well on their own? Is there trapped value and is there after-tax value that could be achieved? And we will make that decision, by the latest, fourth-quarter of 2016 on whether to trigger that optionality.

On your question about big, small, growth opportunities, look, we look at it from the point of view of as a pharmaceutical company, we want to buy, the ideal of course is to buy a pipeline and also products that are growing. These products and opportunities you have to have a belief in the future, often the future potential of the products you're buying. There's a lot involved in an acquisition this large. It's a combination of what you think the portfolio will do, what you believe the synergies will come through on the operational side, and of course, tax and tax planning plays a role in that.

So to a certain extent, the discussions that are going on in Washington right now about a potential international tax reform does affect the way we look at the different opportunities we have in the marketplace. You'd expect us to be looking at that very carefully. Certainly, any acquisition we do make will have a bias on the near-term revenue opportunities and on accretion.

OTC, look, the Consumer business is a tremendous business, a tremendous store of value. We talked Nexium OTC, and it has been an incredible success. We continue to invest in the Consumer business. We always look at our businesses, all of them, on a regular basis and our strategic plan vis-a-vis what part they play in the total value of Pfizer shareholders. We are always reviewing that. At this moment, I think the Consumer business is a very valuable and growing asset for Pfizer.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Our next question please, operator?

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thank you for a very clear opening statement. All of you, it's always very helpful. I want to go back and build on some of the questions that have already been asked, but the first one is, Ian, and I know you get asked this every quarter, and I'm sure Chuck tells you you get asked this every quarter, but this quarter, I think it's become a little bit more of a focus for investors.

The widespread Wall Street rumors that you might be interested in something like an Allergan. I understand you wouldn't comment on that, but can you comment in general on your interest in inverting at this point? What the thresholds would need to be versus what the official thresholds right now to make you comfortable that such inversion could be completed? Is inversion still a priority for Pfizer?

Second question was for Frank. Maybe you've disclosed this, I'm not sure, so it's a shame on me if you have, but I've heard from little birdies that money that you've already spent preparing for separation, this might have been embedded to an earlier answer, it wasn't clear to me, but the money that you've already spent preparing for separation of Pfizer is on the order of $1 billion. I'd just like to know if that number, if you are willing publicly to talk about whether or not that number is realistic.

And then the final question is, and this is a tougher one, I don't know if you'll be able to answer it, but some of us have been now thinking about, if and when Pfizer splits, perhaps instead of floating one or more of these companies, they might be strategic acquirer for one or more of these companies. And I think we're all trying to get a sense of what the cost basis is for these companies, so that we could understand if it's realistic that someone could buy them, or would the tax burden on such a transaction would be prohibitive? I don't know if there's any finger in the wind, words of wisdom you can give us, Frank. Thank you.

IAN READ: Mark, on the inversion question, the reason you do any deal is, as we said before, and it sounds like motherhood and apple pie, but it is because you believe it's going to create value for shareholders long-term. And so we can remain interested in the potential of an inversion, because it would facilitate and enable wealth creation for shareholders. It would certainly also position Pfizer under current tax laws to be -- it would liberate our balance sheet, and would position us to be far more active in the M&A space, and competitive, which is why there is all this push to have tax reform, because at the moment, the American companies are not as competitive as European companies, given the different tax rate.

So the inversion is attractive both because it creates a major value and it enables you to meet the premiums to acquire the Company. And it's attractive because it will liberate your balance sheet for future activity and spending and cash flow. And that, in its turn, informs you as to what level of inversion you would find acceptable, whether you want an inversion that is between 60 and 80 or below 60. So it's a complex issue, and we're not focused totally on inversions.

It's only a component of the business development strategy, and only comes in when you believe you need that value that's created by the inversion, to get to the premium to buy the Company. But it's not just -- inversions is not our one track business development strategy. With that, I'll pass it over to Frank to answer the other two difficult questions.

FRANK D'AMELIO: The little birdie questions. Mark, year-to-date, cumulatively to date, because that's what you asked, not year-to-date, cumulatively to date, we spent, give or take, approximately $300 million, when I include the $164 million year-to-date this year. The thing to remember about these kinds of optionality projects, think about carve-outs as a sense, there's a massive amount of work that needs to be done. And when you're looking at -- I'll call it the total cost structure, these kinds of projects, they do run into the low billions of dollars. That's the nature of what they do.

But here's what you've got to remember. In that number, there's tax leakage. You do everything you can to minimize tax leakage, but you've got to create multiple legal entities. Anytime you're creating multiple legal entities, or more than one in the country, you create tax exposure, tax leakage. There's potential leakage regarding debt and decision-making you make around whether or not you're going to repurchase debt. And then there's all the, I'll call it blocking and tackling, that needs to be done in areas like systems. Legal entity and tax planning, regulatory work, supply chain. It's a massive amount of work.

And think about the visual. This is a Company that's been restructuring for a decade. Integrating, putting things together, and now you want to do something where you're taking a major piece of the Company and you're going to carve it out in a sense, undo much of the work that you've done previously. Requires a lot of effort, it costs a bunch of money. But year-to-date, which is what you asked me, cumulatively to date, it's been about $300 million.

IAN READ: That being said, we do see the logic of, because there are two different businesses, and we do feel that the amounts we will need to spend to put ourselves in the position to complete optionality, has been money well spent for shareholders, given the potential upside of what optionality could produce.

FRANK D'AMELIO: It's essentially the cost of having the option, is really what it translates to, Mark. It's the cost of having the option. And then the last piece about tax basis, obviously, it's premature to get into tax basis of the businesses, but what I would say is, to just punctuate what Ian said, the fourth criteria is being able to unlock that trapped value, assuming there is some, in a tax efficient way. So obviously anything we would do would have extensive tax planning, and would minimize obviously -- or maximize the after-tax returns to our shareholders.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian and Frank. Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citigroup.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Three questions, please. Firstly, just revisiting the tax question, could you give us some sense over the next three, five years where your effective tax rate is going, as the business currently stands, giving the change in mix of business, particularly the increasing US contribution? And second, on the tax, via the ongoing debates in Washington, or the probability you feel of any meaningful change, may improve the effective tax rate that you pay?

Second, could you comment how the recent Teva Allergan deal impacts the M&A landscape from the Pfizer perspective? And finally you obviously reported a very strong quarter for Prevnar 13. To what extent should we expect an inventory destock in the following quarter? IE, how much of this is industry stocking, given, I imagine, that most of the vaccinations are going to happen in adolescents. But please correct me if I'm wrong.

IAN READ: Thank you, Andrew. On the tax question, we don't project our tax rate. There are just too many variables in there including business development, including where we make our earnings, including potential changes in US tax law, and we give guidance on a yearly basis on our tax rate. Frank, you want to add anything?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Just that year-to-date, our tax rate's 25%. Our guidance for the year is 25% so for 2015, we're running pretty much right according to our guidance. And then just to punctuate what Ian said, there's just too many moving parts to try to project our tax rates beyond the current year, but we'll obviously include the 2016 rate when we provide our 2016 guidance.

IAN READ: Thank you. On DC, it's too difficult to speculate on what would happen on tax legislation. I do think I am heartened by the conversations that are occurring, and the acknowledgment in Washington, that something has to be done to allow global US corporations to become competitive, given the nature of the US tax system. And hopefully they will take action earlier rather than later to allow us to be competitive, and I think we will see that unfold in the next five months, as to whether Washington will take any action on that or not.

On the Teva Allergan, does it change landscape for us? I don't think it changes the landscape for Pfizer in any material way. We continue to have our own strategies and pursue our own BD objectives and this doesn't impinge upon that. Frank, want to talk about anything else? And then it's Albert on Prevnar 13?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, Andrew. I'm monitoring the inventories, and there was no significant inventory build in the quarter, so inventories didn't materially affect the adult performance at all.

IAN READ: So I think Andrew, what you need to do on Prevnar -- what we need on Prevnar 13 adult, is you have three influences, or four influences going on. One, you have the underlying rate of US citizens becoming 65, which is about 4 million a year. You have then in the US, the bolus of catch-up which is significant, and we believe will last certainly this year and next, and maybe into the third year. And then you have you have the progress in the G6 countries as we get and have had for our registration and labeling changes, to enable adult vaccine to be sold to the 65 and above.

And there, of course, you have a huge cohort, probably substantially larger than the US, probably twice the size of the US. And that's going to take market development. We're going to have to work on that country by country, but we see there also, the movement of the population to over 65, plus the catch-up opportunity. So overall, when you look at those waves of opportunities, I feel that we feel that the adult vaccine is an interesting ongoing large franchise for Pfizer.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Couple of quick ones. On your Avastin biosimilar, you started the Phase 3 trial with a primary endpoint of objective response rate. Can you talk about the discussions you've had with regulators, and whether you anticipate objective response rate will be an approval endpoint? And then two on the IO pipeline. Can you walk us through the key readouts we should be paying attention to over the next 12 months? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. Technical question there, Colin, on that. I don't know if Mikael, you want to address that.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE R&D, PFIZER INC.: All of our five biosimilars have been evolved in their development strategies in close consultations with the major regulatory agencies, and particularly FDA. So that will reflect the input and robustness in trial design, and what should be predicted the best choice of endpoint for approval opportunity.

IAN READ: So I think we feel satisfied that we have an agreement with the major agencies and the endpoints will be the ones necessary to get approval. IO pipeline, Mikael, do you want to run through that or what you think of the significant things going forward? And when we are likely to be issuing results?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: So I'm really excited about our IO pipeline. And starting with anchor drug, avelumab, we have now more than 1,000 patients that have been on avelumab, and we feel that we see a consistent good response rate, substantial clinical durability, and responses, and robust safety profile. And we report that some studies at ASCO, and now we have positive readouts in lung, gastric, ovarian, and bladder, you're aware, and Ian alluded to that we've started a second line lung cancer trial. We expect in a relatively near-term opportunity to move to first line in that setting. Our experience in cost various indications will lead this year too numerous announcements of Phase 3, up to six pivotal studies that include several in lung, gastric, ovarian, bladder, and renal.

We also at ASCO communicated favorable date on 4-1BB, already seen in the Phase 1 in follicular lymphoma showing good tolerability, and together with rituximab, favorable responses. We are expanding that study. 4-1BB, which is a unique molecule, one of the few I think in this industry this advanced, is also in studies with Keytruda, as well as the soon-to-be extensive program with avelumab. We also have recently entered clinical studies with OX40 as another positive event for our immuno-oncology pipeline, and we have communicated favorable data with CCR2 in pancreatic cancer.

And later this year, we expect vaccine to start dosing for prostate cancer. And we have numerous compounds and NMEs that will also enter next year. So you see really us evolving a very comprehensive monotherapy and a combination therapy. We will, over time, share more data. There is an ESMO conference that will give you an update on avelumab and will include in particular lung cancer, ovarian, and also some bladder, we expect. And we will continue to inform you about the progress of 4-1BB.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Mikael. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Two if I could. One building a little bit on what you talked about earlier around the amount of cost around planning for a potential split. Do you have a sense of what the dissynergies would be to actually execute a split of the Company at this point, if you're trying to split into two parts? I think you may have some sense of that by now. And as more of us can undo on a Pfizer on a cost basis it will be helpful to have a how you think the dissynergies would be.

And then the second question I had was on the vaccine side, starting with the VOC business, a lot of focus on oncology obviously, but can you talk a little more generally about your strategy in vaccines? You're obviously making good progress with Prevnar in adults. Staph is moving along, that obviously looks promising. Maybe a little bit more broadly, where you see other potential areas for value there. You have obviously made some deals, you have maternal vaccines, you talked about C diff. What you think people might be underappreciating with your vaccines business as opposed to how you see it internally right now? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. Well, cost of dissynergies, Frank, want to make a comment on that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Just from my perspective, we've obviously been looking at this, we've been analyzing the detail. I think I'd summarize it by saying we don't see it as being a material dissynergy relative to optionality, based on our current analysis.

IAN READ: No. So your question on the vaccines I'll try and do a summarized answer, and then I'll ask Albert if he wants to add anything on to it. I think you are seeing us continue to drive and maximize the Prevnar 13 opportunity, both in infants and adults. We believe that the opportunity in adults is broad and deep and durable, so we're confident in that. We continue to work on Prevnar, on the Prevnar family, to look at further enhancements.

We believe there's a real opportunity to accelerate the -- as long as the Phase 2 trial on the back surgery performs as we expect, we think there's an opportunity to accelerate the staph aureus vaccine. We are in Phase 2 with what we believe is a very good vaccine with C. difficile, and then we've made acquisitions of other vaccines like the Baxter acquisition, to add some critical mass to our what our field force carries. We have Trumenba, which we think will develop over time as an important vaccine, and then we've done acquisitions and licensing of -- for vaccines for infants. So you want to add some more detail to that, Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: Very few things to add, Ian. I think in vaccines, we have substantial scientific capabilities, and significant substrate, research substrate, that allows us to see optimistically the future. And to have very good track record of delivery. With staph, we have already initiated, as Ian said, the Phase 2b study, and that's in 2,600 patients. If the Phase2b data show considerable efficacy, we will consider requesting an accelerated approval from this product, and the study that we're running now could potentially serve to support registration.

IAN READ: They have breakthrough [Fast Track] status, right?

ALBERT BOURLA: And breakthrough [Fast Track] status. Same as with C. difficile. That has breakthrough [Fast Track] status, but also, as you recall, we had outed recruitment and vaccinations in a previously initiated Phase 2b study, as a result of some cases of redness that we observed at the injection site. Now, we have already recently received approval from the FDA to initiate a new Phase 2 program with a different formulation, so we are moving full speed in materializing that as well.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks. The next question, please?

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First one was just a little bit more color on Prevnar 13 adult. I appreciate the earlier comments, but can you give us a little bit more color? When you think about the US catch up bolus, how large is that bolus, and how far through are you at this point? Do you have numbers in that front, would be pretty helpful.

Second, on your PD-L1, I know you've highlighted in the past a high disease control rate that we have seen with some of the studies. When can we see more survival data that could help us assess that disease control rate, versus maybe some higher overall response rates we're seeing from other products, as we think about this as a combinable agent longer-term?

And the final one was coming back to business development, does seem like we're seeing a significant consolidation in the industry at the same time we're seeing an uptick in innovation. I know Pfizer has priorities in terms of what it needs to do, given its product cycle, but can you elaborate a little bit more how this rapidly-changing environment is impacting your business development priorities, either in terms of further sense of urgency, willingness to broaden the scope of what you're looking at? I'm trying to understand how the backdrop of the sector effects how you're pursuing deals. Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Prevnar 13, Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: Again I will express how my excitement about the success that they're of having so far with Prevnar in the US. And basically we are able to make pneumonia vaccination for adults an age-based event so people who get vaccinated when they come to age of 65, rather than a seasonal event. But of course, we were very successful in catching up a lot of previously vaccinated.

To give you a sense of the numbers in the US, as Ian said, approximately 4 million people are turning 65 every year. In 2014, when we started with Prevnar, there was a large cohort of approximately 27 million people that were previously vaccinated. With an old technology vaccine, and there was also another cohort of 18 million people that had never received a vaccine. So in total, 45 million people. Usually, there is 2.6 million deaths also, that are happening per year in that cohort.

So main, we don't have exact split of how much is catch-up and how much is normal business in the US, but given the massive number of vaccinations that are occurring, a big part is coming from catch-up, and this is a lot, as we said. That's why we said that this year will continue growing, and will be very big. Next year also will be substantial, very big, might not grow versus 2015, but will be very big.

And then we move international. Internationally, the aging demographics are more compelling than in US, because the percentage of people that are living above 65 is much higher. Countries like Japan for example is almost double than in US in terms of percentage, 14% approximately in the US to 26% 27% 28% in Japan, and this is where we expect in 2017 to start getting a wave of recommendations, now that we've got approval in Europe for pneumonia. That as long as we get recommendation, then reinvestment comes, and then we start commercially penetrating very aggressively, as we did in the US.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert. I believe that cohort in the G6 countries are around 94 million?

ALBERT BOURLA: That's correct. Double the US.

IAN READ: Okay. PD-L1 data? That we are in partnership with Merck KGaA?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: So at a more higher level, we can say when we carefully go through data from lung, ovarian, gastric and bladder, where we have extensive number of patients followed for six months or more, we see response rates that are very comparable to other PD-1, PD-L1 agents. Of course, it depends on how you cut your data. We have generally looked at response rates, including all patients, and not solely PD-L1 positive, and that's part of our long-term strategy, that it seems that patients that even have low expression of PD-L1 will benefit, particularly when you later develop combination therapies, so we accumulate experiences across all PD-L1 spectrum, but will of course, in various endpoints, look at PD-L1 positive.

That was the strategy in our second line lung cancer, which is all-inclusive for lung cancer patients in second line, but the primary endpoint is on PD-L1 positive. Disease control rates are very high in our studies. In general, 50% or higher across several indications. And when we again compared to others, where do we look at disease control rates, six months progression-free survival et cetera, we're very pleased with avelumab, both for efficacy and tolerability. And you will get further data update at ESMO oncology conference.

IAN READ: Thank you. Going back to BD, we look at BD probably in two large ways at Pfizer. One is when we're looking at individual needs of the business units, which can be like a smaller tuck-in or can be an acquisition of an individual product. When we look at individual products, it tends to have a -- normally, because, very often you're buying a product at the beginning of it's -- either before it's approved or after it's approved, but we're looking at it opportunities to expand indications, and so we look at the risk-adjusted return, and we make a decision whether to participate in that franchise. And that can be influenced by the ability to combine it with our existing therapeutic areas, if we can get also additional synergies through operational savings. So that's one way we're looking at BD, which is more opportunistic product related.

The second type of BD is trying to buy technology, like perhaps gene therapy, or Cellectis when we're going to CAR-T technology, and those tend to be longer-term investments. And the third type of BD is what you would say is a more traditional BD, where we look at total companies, and there the driver of value often is existing pipeline, existing products, potential pipeline products, opportunities for synergies, and potentially tax savings and future liberation of the balance sheet, because you're no longer constrained by the US tax situation. So I think what you've been seeing in the marketplace is foreign companies with significant tax advantages taking advantage of acquisitions in the US, and building up their organization.

You've seen a refocusing by some companies, and you have seen, as with the Allergan Teva transaction, where one Company needs to strengthen its portfolio and focus by acquiring the generic of the other company. So look, we are actively monitoring this process. I don't think we've lost out to any opportunities that would have made sense to our shareholders. We're determined if an opportunity is there, that we will not lose out. We have the will, we have the capability, we have the capital, we have the management team. So I feel that frankly, our BD strategy and philosophy and approach is appropriate for this point in time, in the value cycles.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Congratulations on a strong quarter. First on biosimilars, you have five antibodies in development. You are obviously making a significant investment there. Can you update us on your updated views of the potential size of the biosimilar market, in light of what we're seeing in Europe, and how we should think about the opportunity for Pfizer?

Follow-up on that, given these investments, how should we think about some of the overlapping assets that you're getting from Hospira? And then finally, could you comment on the recent PCSK9 approval and potential implications for your bococizumab? Thank you very much.

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks for the question, Alex. First of all, in terms of your question about the size of the market, we continue to see around about $100 billion of currently patented biologic medicines that will lose patent protection over the next five to 10 years. That's a significant market opportunity for companies that have the technology platform capability, and current biosimilar portfolio to be able to capitalize on that opportunity. So we continue to think that we are very well-placed. And in relation to your question about Hospira, we continue to see that our portfolio and Hospira's are highly complementary. And we're very excited about the opportunity that presents post close.

IAN READ: On the PCSK9 approval by Europe from Amgen and the US, by Sanofi, Regeneron, I think we expect it on LDL lowering. I don't see substantial -- I see modest use of these products until the outcomes data comes through. We don't think we would be that far behind on outcomes data. I think the size of the market is difficult to predict at this time.

It really depends on how the CTEP development comes through. If the CTEPs, which are oral, come through, I could see a market that is segmented three ways, IE statin use so you can get to goals, statin plus a CTEP or CTEP alone if you're statin intolerant, and then potentially PCSK9 being held in reserve, if the CTEP can't get you to the goals of the statin. So it's very, very difficult to predict how this market will shake out in value. And I think it's interesting to see what will happen in 2016, if the CTEPs are improved and what type label, what type of pricing they come to the market with, and what type of pricing we see develop on the PCSK9s as negotiations occur with managed care.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian. Next question please, operator?

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Congratulations on the quarter. Just back to Prevnar 13, can you quantify the shipments that you made into GAVI and the vaccine alliance, and also provide some additional color on which national immunization programs included Prevnar 13 into their program? And then secondly, on your Xeljanz filing in the EU, can you remind us what led to the rejection, and what remedies that you've made to the filing? I believe you mentioned you're on track to file before the end of the year in the EU. That would help enhance the ability to secure approval on Xeljanz in Europe. Thanks.

IAN READ: Geno can deal with the Xeljanz question, and then I'll see if Albert has any data at hand. That's pretty specific on your question, John or if we will just have to answer to generalities right now. But let's get to Geno first.

GENO GERMANO: Thanks, John. I think the questions from the CHMP revolved a lot around the immune system effects of Xeljanz, understanding the safety profile, primarily. So we have done some additional pharmacology studies. We've done a study with herpes zoster vaccine to demonstrate a lack of interference with the immunogenicity of the vaccine, and of course, collected longer-term follow-up data from our long-term extension trials and our post-marketing surveillance trial. So it will be a combination of these data points that will comprise the resubmission that we're planning on for later this year.

IAN READ: Okay. Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: I don't have handy the numbers. I'll have to come back to you, but generally in emerging markets the growth was 18% for pediatric, approximately for the quarter. And this volatility will continue to exist.

IAN READ: Depends on the timing of NIP, timing of GAVI. Not something that we are particularly focused on. We have a full-year forecast which takes into account all these fluctuations, and we've built that into the change in our guide.

FRANK D'AMELIO: That's all part of our revenue guidance.

CHUCK TRIANO: Okay. Thank you. Our next question, please?

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: First one, just around business development, if you follow on here, do you have a bias towards OUS domiciled companies, when you're looking at opportunities to help grow the GIP business, given where your cash is held? Second, because of your focus on doing BD in a few years to bridge to 2017, does that mean we should expect much less cash to be diverted towards share repurchases? And then lastly, just around the BD, given your want or desire to help boost the business prior to 2017, doesn't that mean, given time for antitrust review or any other reviews of the transaction, that should we should be expecting you to complete, announce additional deals during the second half of this year for them to come into that timeframe? And then last question, just on a separate area, can you maybe outline for us just a couple of the biggest OTC switch opportunities that you see the business potentially in the next two to three years? Thank you.

IAN READ: On the OTC switch, I don't want to get into that because it's confidential and helps competitors prepare along with us in the marketplace. So I think you can look at our portfolio and make assumptions on your own as to which products are more likely to be switched or not.

On the BD, I have no bias towards a US or foreign Company. I have a bias to the value creation. I have no bias towards, well, I have a bias on our portfolio. If valuations are equal and opportunities are equal, I prefer to do a BD deal that strengthens our Innovative business, as I think we've done quite a bit to strengthen the Established business.

On the less cash depending on an acquisition, I think it depends on the type of acquisition, how it's structured, and I think it's too early to say, but of course any deal we do what we do we'll be looking at total shareholder returns, and we would factor that into the type of deal with restructuring. I think that's the most we can say at this time, frankly with that.

And then on timing, when I talk about 2017, I'm talking about -- frankly I use that as a mark, given conversations I have with our owners, about the fact that great, you've got great in-line momentum, you've got these new products, you've got Eliquis, and you've got Ibrance and adult vaccine, and all the other in-lines that are moving well. I'm just looking at ways of increasing our revenues as we develop our pipeline, and we start to see that pipeline come to fruition in 2017 and launch in 2018, and we'll see those launches 2017 through 2018 through 2019.

So I think it's important to get any BD we do right, and I don't feel pressurized to get it right by 2017. What's important is to get it right to create value for our shareholders. And I don't think, frankly, there's a timing pressure on us to do BD.

We're going to look at it. We want to do BD. We're going to be opportunistic, but we're also going to make sure that we make the right decisions for Pfizer shareholders.

CHUCK TRIANO: All right. Thank you, Ian. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have two questions. First, could you remind us about the ex-US Enbrel exclusivity loss timing? And expectations for timing of biosimilar competitor launches? And then with respect to Ibrance, could you please discuss potential indications outside of breast cancer and what key trials we should be watching on that front? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you. Geno, could you do the Enbrel?

GENO GERMANO: Enbrel exclusivity expires near the end of this year so we expect to see biosimilar penetration beginning next year in Europe.

IAN READ: Okay. Ibrance indications outside of breast cancer?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: We're very excited about the potential of Ibrance. And I think we have a real unique proprietary knowledge in understanding how to use science around Ibrance, combination, new indications. So we have an extensive collaborative research clinical programs that you may be aware of, but in addition to that, I'm pleased to say that we are starting a number of Pfizer-sponsored new studies. And very soon, we'll start one study in head and neck cancer, HPV-negative patients that are recurrent metastatic, combining Ibrance with Erbitux, with prior experience of that combination in a collaborative study, and now launching a Pfizer-sponsored, which could have a very interesting path forward, if data is strong.

In addition to that, we have generated very compelling pre-clinical data on human tumors for pancreatic cancer, where particularly the combination of Ibrance with paclitaxel or Abraxane was very promising, and we are soon starting a Phase 2 study preceded by safety lead-in with Ibrance and Abraxane in pancreatic advanced cancer. We also have significant effort in understanding patients that progress on Ibrance after having had long significant benefit in breast cancer. And you learn more about Pfizer's program in double and triple combination, that also can further expand our stronghold and leadership in Ibrance.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. If we could take our last question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Frank, maybe could you remind us the threshold for completing an inversion? And I ask the question particularly since some smaller deals appear to have gotten as low as 20% after the Treasury update. So it would be helpful to know what your thoughts are on the threshold for inversion, because I think previously you had said it was really 40%. And then separately as part of your optionality calculus, with the split, do you also consider Pfizer as a potential target in that calculus, since this would appear to be a value-add option for shareholders? Thanks.

IAN READ: Are you saying Pfizer or the split of Pfizer?

IAN READ: Seamus can't reply. Okay. Probably the split, we think that in the optionality, both companies would be robust and strong, and would have the ability to be successful companies on their own. And we really can't comment on whether there would be BD activity to try and buy those companies. They would be companies that would be independent, and continue to try and progress their own business strategies. On the inversion?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Prior to, I'll call it the September 22 proposed rule changes by the IRS, the hurdle was less than 80%, so our shareholders had to own less than 80% of the newly-formed Company that we acquired, to get the full benefits of an inversion. That hurdle was lowered to less than 60%, which means we'd have to do a larger acquisition to get the full benefits. So less than 80% to less than 60%.

IAN READ: The issue with this, Seamus is that the full benefit or non-full benefit is very idiosyncratic, depending on the Company you're doing the inversion on, and the complexity of the tax rule. So it may be that if you are in below 80 but not below 60, you still have substantial benefits from an inversion, and therefore despite the proposed rule changes, or it may be on different targets you need to be at below the 60 threshold. So the universe is not constricted or reduced to only 60-40. It's very dependent upon the type of assets, the structure, where the cash is, et cetera et cetera.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Very company-specific.

IAN READ: Very company specific. Thank you very much.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, and thank you all for your attention today.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Pfizer's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc | hospra : Hospira Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | imedres : Medical Research Services | iphhss : Healthcare Support Services | iphlab : Medical/Clinical/Diagnostic Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150729eb7s002s2
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,788 words
   PD
28 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's First-Quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's First-Quarter 2015 performance. I'm joined here today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, General Counsel.

The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed at our homepage, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance, First-Quarter 2015, which is located in the investor presentations section in the lower right-hand corner of the page.

Before we start I'd like to remind you that our discussions during the call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Discussions in the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today. We'll now make some prepared remarks and then we'll move to a Q&A session.

With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck. And good morning, everyone. During my remarks this morning, I will briefly recap the highlights in the quarter, provide some thoughts about the pipeline and close with a few comments about actions we've taken to strengthen our core businesses.

Starting with the quarter, our performance for the quarter was solid, with good performance on both top and bottom line. Overall revenues grew by 2% operationally, even with a negative impact from the loss of exclusivity of Celebrex in the US and the end of the Spiriva co-promotion agreement also in the US.

In addition, we saw 12% operational growth in emerging markets, driven by both our GEP and Innovative businesses. While a majority of the LOEs and co-promote expiries are behind us, we still face some LOEs this year and next, making it difficult to generate revenue growth despite the strong performance of our newest products. That said, we believe the impact from any remaining LOEs will diminish over time as we continue to see a building revenue base resulting from investments we have made in key growth areas and recent product launches.

I'll touch on some noteworthy areas. Prevnar 13 had a very strong quarter, particularly in the US where revenues increased 80%. This was primarily due to strong uptake amongst adults 65 years of age and older, following the positive recommendation from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's advisory committee on immunization practices as well as the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication compared to the year-ago quarter. Revenues for the adult indication were approximately $300 million in the quarter.

Physicians' response to Prevnar 13 continues to build steadily, and our strong Q1 sales suggest these physicians are actively vaccinating adults who have never been vaccinated, as well as those who were previously vaccinated with Pneumovax from Merck. Each year, several million people in the US turn 65 who are eligible to receive Prevnar 13. And of those adults in the US who are already 65, there are many millions eligible that have never been vaccinated or were previously vaccinated.

We are increasing awareness amongst adults about the serious seriousness of pneumococcal pneumonia and the importance of talking to their physicians or pharmacists about vaccination to protect them from its devastating effects. We believe our efforts are increasing the sense of urgency to vaccinate and driving consumers to request the Prevnar vaccine. In December, CMS changed their guidance to cover both pneumococcal vaccines which ensures coverage for seniors 65 years and older under Medicare Part D, aligning with the positive ACIP recommendations from August 2014.

Eliquis is gaining significant momentum worldwide as it continues to increase share amongst cardiologists and recently has become the number one oral anticoagulant, that's NOAC, prescribed by cardiologists for new-to-brand patients in the United States and Japan. In addition, Eliquis is now the number one NOAC prescribed by cardiologists for new-to-brand patients for the non-valvular atrial fibrillation indication in the UK and Spain, and we are continuing to see increasing uptake in Germany.

We are pleased with the continued progress Xeljanz has made toward becoming a key product based on approvals in 40 countries in rheumatoid arthritis. Launches in revenue growth for the RA indication and the initiation of filing for the potential second indication in plaque psoriasis. In the US, rheumatologists' satisfaction with the product continues to be positive. Xeljanz now ranks number three amongst rheumatologists in new-to-brand prescription share of self-administrated rheumatoid arthritis therapies and is on track to become the third new-to-brand therapy overall in the US.

We have put significant focus and resources behind building our Oncology business. The portfolio was strengthened with some recent advancements.

In February we received accelerated approval from the FDA for Ibrance and have quickly launched in the US. While it is still very early I'm extremely pleased with this performance. Physicians have been embracing the product. The number of new patient starts have been increasing since the FDA approval and we are seeing early success with reimbursement to date. The Ibrance team has done a remarkable job in ensuring we were able to get the product to patients as quickly as possible following approval.

We also announced this month that our Phase 3 trial of Ibrance current breast cancer had made its primary endpoint for progression-free survival. We will be presenting detailed efficacy and safety results from PALOMA-3 at the upcoming ASCO. In addition, we have several presentations at ASCO including oral data presentations for our immuno-oncology asset 4-1BB and avelumab, the PD-L1 being co-developed through our alliance with Merck KGaA.

Also last week we announced another encouraging development in our oncology pipeline, a Phase 3 trial for inotuzumab met the primary endpoint of demonstrating a higher complete hematological remission rate in adults with relapsed refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia compared to that achieved with standard of care chemotherapy. We are discussing these data with the FDA and other regulatory agencies. The trial will continue to evaluate overall survival which is a separate primary endpoint. The data will be submitted for presentation at upcoming medical meetings.

I believe our recent accompaniments and news flow in research and development demonstrate that we are in one of the productive times for our pipeline. We have strong presence in the areas where the science is quickly moving, whether it's market potential where we believe we have clinical differentiation, and most importantly where the patient's needs are the greatest.

Today we published a comprehensive update of the pipeline. You will see that we have a rich modality mix across small and large molecules and vaccines, novel mechanisms and potential new indications. This includes the development of bococizumab, the ongoing development for Xeljanz, a CDK 4/6 platform with Ibrance, a comprehensive immuno-oncology program with our partner Merck KGaA for the first wave of potential single agent monotherapy treatment regimes for several tumor types, and assets to position us for the next wave of potential I-O combination therapies including 4-1BB, OX40 and ADC, vaccines for staph aureus and c. difficile, a next-generation ALK/ROS1 inhibitor, a world-leading Kinase capability with unique JAK drugs in development, a strong rare disease portfolio in the areas of hematology, neuroscience, inherited metabolic disorders and pulmonology, our novel neuroscience work in Parkinson's, and our development portfolio of monoclonal biosimilars continues to progress well with four products now in Phase 3 development.

In total, we have 88 programs in clinical development with 30 programs in late stage development for registration as of today. Over the last several years we have rebuilt the pipeline and transformed our approach to R&D, and we believe we're well positioned to bring forth over the next several years therapies that will significantly improve people's lives.

Now for a few comments about how we continue to take steps to expand our sources of revenue and strengthen our core businesses. As always, we continue to look for business development opportunities that will create value with a bias towards deals with the potential for creating value in the near term. M&A activity in the pharma space has been very active recently and Pfizer regularly reviews potential opportunities but remains disciplined with our shareholders' capital to ensure transactions we may pursue generate an appropriate return for our shareholders.

That is why this quarter you saw us announce two transactions, one to drive greater sustainability of the GEP business over the long term and one to expand the vaccines portfolio. Hospira is an excellent strategic fit in an attractive and growing market segment, including sterile injectables and biosimilars, and we expect the acquisition to accelerate the growth trajectory of the GEP business. We remain on track for closing in the second half of this year.

And our deal for Redvax expands our vaccines development portfolio by giving us access to our promising vaccine in preclinical development for human cytomegalovirus, a virus that can lead to serious disabilities in infants when passed from newly infected mothers to their newborns. We now have a broader market in vaccines portfolio for preventing serious illnesses, which includes the most widely used pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in the world, Prevnar 13, with more than 750 million doses distributed. Trumenba, recently approved to prevent invasive disease caused by Group B meningitis in people aged 10 through 25, and vaccines to protect against disease caused by Group C meningitis and to help prevent tickborne encephalitis through acquiring Baxter International's marketed vaccines.

As you've heard us say on several occasions, business development is not a strategy. It is one lever of several we have available for strengthening our two basic businesses, the Innovative Products business and Established Products business.

This year is off to a good start with momentum in the pipeline growing, market penetration for our newest in-line products and strategic additions to the portfolio. Our focus for the year will continue to be on supporting our recent new product launches, in particular Ibrance and Prevnar 13 Adult, accelerating the differentiating key programs in the pipeline to deliver breakthrough products, continuing to look for attractive business development opportunities that strengthen our businesses, and doing all of these things while we deploy our capital in a way that yields the greatest value to shareholders.

I will now turn it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.

First-Quarter 2015 reported revenues were approximately $10.9 billion, and reflect operational growth of $250 million or 2% year over year, mainly driven by the strong performance of Prevnar 13 and Eliquis in developed markets and Lyrica, Nexium 24 Hour, Xeljanz and Viagra, primarily in the US, the launch of Ibrance in the US in February of this year and 12% operational growth in emerging markets, which were more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of approximately $739 million or 7%, the loss of exclusivity in immediate multisource generic competition for Celebrex in the US in December of 2014, other product losses of exclusivity, and the termination of the Spiriva co-promotion collaboration in certain countries.

Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.51 versus $0.57 in the year-ago quarter. The decrease was primarily due to a $0.04 negative impact due to foreign exchange, and a $0.03 negative impact due to the $295 million upfront payment to OPKO during First-Quarter 2015.

Adjusted diluted EPS was favorably impacted by a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, which declined by 184 million shares, versus the year-ago quarter due to ongoing share repurchases which includes the partial quarter impact of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement effective February 2015. Reported diluted EPS was $0.38 compared with $0.36 in the year-ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the favorable impact of lower legal charges, which were partially offset by a higher effective tax rate.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted first-quarter reported revenues by $739 million or $0.07, and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted R&D expenses in the aggregate by $462 million or 7%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.04 compared with the year-ago quarter.

Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments, in the first quarter, Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 7% operationally year over year due to the strong operational growth from Lyrica, primarily in the US and Japan, and the performance from recently launched products including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz primarily in the US. Although operationally revenues increased 7% and cost of sales decreased 1%, income before taxes declined 9% operationally mainly because of a 59% operational increase in R&D expenses, primarily due to the previously mentioned upfront payment to OPKO Health, and, to a lesser extent, an 11% operational increase in SI&A expenses due to increased investment in products in certain in-line brands.

First-Quarter VOC revenues increased 29% operationally due to the 51% operational revenue growth, from our global vaccines business, as a result of Prevnar 13, which grew 80% in the US and 15% in internationally, and the inclusion of Baxter's marketed vaccines in Europe, Nexium 24 Hour in the US, the launch of Ibrance in the US in February, and Xalkori and Inlyta globally.

Income before taxes increased 41% operationally mainly due to increased revenues with an associated improvement in gross margin, partially offset by a 19% operational increase in SI&A expenses due to investment in Prevnar 13 Adult indication, Nexium 24 Hour and Trumenba and Ibrance launches, and the 7% operational increase in R&D expenses due to increased investment in the Ibrance development program and the global immuno-oncology alliance with Merck KGaA in other oncology products.

In the First-Quarter Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues decreased 10% operationally mainly due to the loss of exclusivity and immediate multi-source generic competition for Celebrex in the US in December of 2014 and, to a lesser extent, from the loss of exclusivity of Lyrica in certain developed markets in Europe during the First-Quarter of 2015 and Zyvox IV in the US in January 2015, continued generic competition for Lipitor in developed markets, and the termination of the Spiriva copromotion agreement in most countries including the US in April of 2014. All of these were partially offset by strong operational growth of 10% in emerging markets driven by Lipitor, Viagra and Norvasc.

Income before taxes declined 14% operationally, due to the decrease in revenues and 1% operational increase for a 2.1 percentage point increase as a percentage of revenues and cost of sales due to an unfavorable change in product mix, flat R&D expenses primarily due to increased spending in our biosimilars development programs offset by lower clinical trial expenses, all of which were partially offset by a 9% operational decrease in SI&A expenses driven by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.

Now I'd like to walk you through the updated full-year 2015 guidance ranges for reported revenues, reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS relative to our 2014 actual results. I want to point out that there are no unfavorable changes to our operational outlook. We are only updating the 2015 guidance ranges for these elements solely due to the negative impact of recent changes in foreign exchange rates in relation to the US dollar from mid-January to mid-April, primarily driven by the weakening of the euro. This updated guidance assumes an FX rate for the euro of approximately $1.06.

As a result, we are lowering our reported revenue range by $500 million and now expect the range to be $44 billion to $46 billion. It's important to note that the actual negative impact of foreign exchange in our full-year 2015 revenues is actually greater than $500 million. However, the operational strength of our revenues is allowing us to absorb this. In addition, we are lowering our reported adjusted diluted EPS ranges by $0.05, and now expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.32 to $1.47 and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.95 to $2.05.

Before moving on, I want to point out that actual rates in mid-April 2015 do not include the impact of a potential devaluation of the Venezuela bolivar. We are reaffirming the remaining elements of our 2015 financial guidance which we issued on January 27, 2015.

Moving on to key takeaways, we recorded solid financial performance in the First Quarter. While we have no unfavorable changes in our operational outlook for the remainder of 2015, we have updated our financial guidance solely to reflect the negative impact of recent changes in foreign exchange rates. We entered into an agreement to acquire Hospira for a total enterprise value of approximately $17 billion. Subject to the appropriate regulatory approvals, we continue to expect to complete the transaction in the second half of 2015.

We achieved several key R&D milestones so far in 2015, including receiving accelerated approval from the FDA for Ibrance with letrozole for first-line advanced breast cancer, our Phase 3 PALOMA-3 study for Ibrance with fulvestrant met its primary efficacy endpoint, the FDA lifting the partial clinical hold on our tanezumab development program, and we are preparing to resume Phase 3 activities with our partner Eli Lilly in the EC approving expanded indications for the use of Prevnar 13 Adults aged 18 years and older.

We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. In the First Quarter of 2015, we've returned $7.8 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. It's important to note that after repurchasing $6 billion of our common stock in the First Quarter of 2015 including our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase, we have already met our 2015 share repurchase target and do not currently expect to repurchase additional shares this year.

We continue to expect to return approximately $13 billion to shareholders in 2015 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. Finally, we remain committed to delivering our attractive shareholder returns in 2015 and beyond.

Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian and Frank. Operator, can we please poll for questions now?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mark Schoenebaum, Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: I will use my question, please, to ask about use of capital, if I may. I know it's something you've discussed a lot but I think we are always interested in even subtle changes in how you answer these questions. But, Ian, I was just wondering, when you think about use of capital, are you at this point -- I think in the past you've remarked that if the numbers make sense you would be open to a large deal, similar to the AstraZeneca proposal last year. Just wanted to take your temperature on that.

And then also would you, in theory, be interested in buying a company, and adding small molecule and DA capabilities to the Established Products business? Or do you feel that the acquisition of Hospira filled the main gaps that that business may have had?

And then, finally, as you look across the landscape in biotech, do you have general thoughts on biotech valuations and opportunities there? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. One question became three. I think the organization is agnostic to the size of BD. It has to be BD that will move the needle. And I'm not concerned about doing a large transaction if the value is there for shareholders.

Vis-a-vis between adding to Innovative or adding to GEP or adding to Consumer, we are driven by value. Does it create value for shareholders? We have the capacity to add businesses in any one of those areas.

And the last part of the question was I think valuation? I think I said last quarter I thought that the valuation in biotech was buoyant. I still believe it remains there. So it means we are very careful as we evaluate deals.

There's probably no deal that actually occurs that we haven't looked at and evaluated. But we have a strong focus on creating shareholder value. And that's what guides us. Thank you for the question.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Ian, in your prepared remarks you failed to mention tax inversions. I'm curious to know how much of a priority a tax inversion still is or unlocking the value of your overseas cash flows. And if you were to abide by the current IRS laws today, doesn't that mean that there are fewer large targets available to you than before? Can you confirm that and really just your appetite?

And then, secondly, you've said before that the earliest that you can break up the Company is in 2017. I'm assuming that's J1 2017 because we will at that point have three full years of financials. And if that's correct are you targeting a decision sometime next year? I would think that once you make the decision, it's going to take about a year or so before you actually execute on this split, or maybe it won't take quite that long. But are you targeting a decision next year? And if so what at this point are you waiting for to make that decision? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Taking the last question first, I believe what we've said is that we would be in a position, if we so took the decision, to effectuate or start the split in 2017, which probably means we would have to take the decision in the latter part of 2016. We do need three years of financials. We will get those three years of financials by the end of 2016.

And what are we waiting for? As we've said before, Jami, I want to see how these two divisions are operating inside of Pfizer. Are they on their own, sustainable businesses? So I'm waiting to see our pipeline developed. I'm waiting to add, as we have done with Hospira, more attractive assets into Established Products.

And then I'm also looking to see how does the Street value the Pfizer as it is today. We've given you a lot of information on our segments, so is it sum of the parts different from the whole? And we will make that decision around the latter part of 2016.

So I think that answers that question. We are, as always, focused in our decision-making on creating shareholder value. And I think those three elements I laid out to you would describe how we would judge whether any such action would create shareholder value.

On the issue of lowering our tax rate, are we domiciling? Tax is one of our largest expenses. We, as any management should be, are focused on trying to prudently manage our expenses.

The new rules, or the new proposed rule change, does make it more difficult to immediately realize any benefits from being re-domiciled. But it really depends upon the target, the very complex issues of where the assets and where the cash and the tax position of the target. And so, really, it's very difficult to say what the universe of possible targets are. But rest assured that when we look at those type of BD deals, we're looking at the creation of value. Thank you.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: With respect to the potential separation of the businesses, I'm guessing that you're not willing to disclose the relative cash flow of the two segments? But my assumption is that the cash flow of the Innovative business is an even smaller percentage of the total Company cash flow than the earnings that you disclosed from the Innovative business would suggest. Anyway, Frank, I was hoping you could speak to that and help us understand whether that's accurate and whether the lack of cash flow in the Innovative business is something that could potentially constrain your ability to separate or monetize that business.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. Couple of comments, Dave. Let me start by reminding everyone, this quarter, when we file our 10-Q, we'll be including balance sheet information for the segment. But we won't have debt or cash, for example, by segment. We'll have on the asset side accounts receivable, inventory, tax assets and other assets. And then on the liability side, we'll have accounts payable of accrued compensation and other liabilities. So we'll start providing balance sheet information but we won't be providing debt or cash by the various segments since those are really enterprise assets, enterprise liabilities at this point.

What I would say is this, that I don't see capital structure -- I'm going to raise it up a little bit -- you asked about cash but I'll answer the question by saying I don't see capital structure as somehow impeding our decision-making relative to whether or not to execute a split of the Company. I believe we can clearly manage our way through capital structure so that's not in any way, shape or form some sort of impeding factor relative to our decision-making.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just two here. First on Ibrance, can you just discuss a little bit more the launch in commercial plans from here for the asset? And as part of that can you give us a little bit of color on the importance of PALOMA-3 to the market opportunity and the ramp of the product? And how big of an opportunity does this open up for Pfizer?

My second question was, coming back to GEP, do you have the capacity to pursue another large deal here? Or are you primarily focused on the Hospira integration at this point, not so much financial capacity, but if you have the personnel in place if another big deal were available could you pursue it? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Let me just talk about the deal. We've done several large integrations. We're working well with Hospira. We expect it to close in the second half of this year.

Should value be there? This organization has the capability of undertaking other deals independent of size of it was important for our shareholders. So, I'm not concerned about that. I would pass it over to Albert to talk about Ibrance.

ALBERT BOURLA, PRESIDENT OF VACCINES, ONCOLOGY & CONSUMER HEALTHCARE, PFIZER INC.: Great. Thanks for the question. Overall we are very pleased with the results. So far, Ibrance has been well-received by oncologists. We have over 800 healthcare practitioners prescribing. We have over 2,000 new patients in one quarter. And we had approximately 3,000 total scripts written so far.

First line market share is already approaching 10%. That's way ahead of previous analogs. And also we see stronger investments so far.

Now, expectation is that Ibrance will gradually grow to become a new standard of care, a first-line treatment of this group of patients. But over time, Ibrance momentum in this country will build beyond first line as other studies read out positive. For example, you mentioned the results of PALOMA-3 which will be presented at ASCO. But we plan to work with the FDA to expand the label to other lines of therapy based on these results.

And also, as a remainder, there are several other breast cancer studies running in early and recurrent settings. And needless to say also we also have many non-breast tumor studies including head and neck, lung, melanoma, et cetera.

Now, for your particular importance of PALOMA-3, as I said, so far there is limited medical use in second and third line given that the label is in first line. So, as I said, we will work with FDA to expand the label to other lines of therapy. But beyond label amendments, I think we should see the PALOMA-3 in the way that adds to the level of confidence in the mechanism of action. And of course is also confirmation of an additional effect of Ibrance combination, this time with Faslodex, before we had with letrozole.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert. We are at Pfizer very focused on speed and maximizing the opportunity of Ibrance and getting this great product to patients as fast as possible. And I believe we will be filing in the EU in the second half of this year. Is that right?

ALBERT BOURLA: This is correct.

IAN READ: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: A couple of questions. Enbrel was down 8% operationally in Europe. I'm wondering how much of this reflects the impact of biosimilar Remicade. And if you can talk about expeditions for that product going forward in Europe both in terms of volume growth and pricing.

And then going back to this topic of splitting up, looking to see if you could give us odds of the possibility that Pfizer chooses not to split up? You consistently leave that open as a possibility for the last several years that we've talked about this topic. And as I'm sure you're aware, most investors want you to do something beyond just buying more targets and getting bigger, so it would be helpful to know with the odds of that not being delivered on is it less than 10%? Less than 20%? Less than 50%? Or what exactly?

IAN READ: Okay. Let me try and deal with the split before we ask Geno to deal with Enbrel. What I would say, Tim, is that I think this management team has established a reputation of focusing its actions on shareholder value. So, I don't really think it's useful to give odds. Where I think it's useful is to say we will do what's best for shareholders in creating value for them.

And some of our transactions, when we were looking at previous ones last year, at times we talked about getting bigger to get smaller. By getting bigger we could add and strengthen the independent businesses and then get smaller if it made sense. So, frankly, we are focused on creating value for shareholders. And if a split or getting bigger and then splitting makes sense, we will execute that, because the prime driver of this management team is to create shareholder value.

With that, I'll pass it over to Geno to talk about Enbrel in Europe.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Okay. Tim, the situation in Europe with Enbrel was that we implemented a new distribution model in the UK. We started at the end of last year where we moved away from the retail channel into just the hospital channel and direct to patient. What we saw in the First Quarter this year was some inventory workdown in the First Quarter and that affected our sales in the UK.

We had good, strong sales in Italy and France and Spain. We really didn't see anything more widespread than the distribution change.

In terms of effect of biosimilar Remicade on the Enbrel business, we really haven't seen an impact there either. We are expecting to see continued modest growth. It's a very large base of business, it's a very well-accepted product throughout Europe and the rest of the world. And we anticipate continuation of modest growth for the brand outside of the US.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: First, Frank, just mechanistically how would a very large transaction, if you did one, affect the timing of a potential split? Clearly the Hospira deal did not affect your timeline but I imagine certain deals could.

And, secondly, for John, it's good to see another strong quarter from Hospira. Is it fair to say that the addition of Hospira, in your mind, takes GEP from flat to declining in sales in the out years to pretty squarely into growth territory? Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Just to reiterate what I said before and then I'll answer the question specifically, we are doing all the things we need to do, in particular the three years of prospective audited financials so that we'd be in a position to exercise our option in 2017 if we chose to do so. And as I've said before, the Hospira acquisition does not impact that timeline.

But then, Gregg, specific to your question, if we were to do a large transaction, and as Ian said before, we are agnostic to size, it's really all about we believe we can create shareholder value for our shareholders it could -- it clearly could impact our timeline. If we were to do a transaction and if it were to impact our timeline, please know we would proactively tell you all that as soon as we knew.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Gregg, it's John here. Thanks for the question. First of all, just to reiterate, as you know we obviously don't provide guidance by individual business. But obviously we're very pleased to see the continued positive strong momentum for the Hospira business.

This quarter, the GEP business has been subject to some LOEs, which I think Ian mentioned in his script and as we've flagged. We knew that in the short term that will therefore impact the revenue trajectory of the base GEP business over the next year or two.

But overall, the transaction certainly represents an immediate incremental source of revenue growth with products that can be expanded into additional markets, given Pfizer's global reach. And I the excitement that I think we've seen in the financial community, that certainly we share, really is around the transaction bringing together two excellent businesses that will deliver not only near-term profitable revenue growth, but also provide a platform for future growth that can be enhanced through Pfizer's global reach and infrastructure. So, we remain very positive about the combination of the two businesses.

OPERATOR: John Boris, SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Congrats on the results. The first one just has to do with the Hospira transaction. Can you give any clarity on when you might anticipate HSR clearance? Most notably, one thing that we noticed was that on medium- and broad-spectrum antibiotics and betalactins that there's some overlap, and then certainly the overlap in the biosimilars. So any commentary on product divestitures would be helpful.

And then second question, on your oncology business if you look at Xalkori, you have number one, number two competitors in oncology launching ALK-positive compounds globally. Inlyta, in light of I-O data that potentially is becoming available. Can you maybe discuss the OS benefit Inlyta has potentially to being able to compete with I-O? And then on Ibrance just potentially competitive threats since competitors are indicating they could have data in 2016 to Ibrance, just your thoughts on your competitive positioning of that franchise going forward here.

IAN READ: Okay, John. Thank you. Some very optimistic questions there. Why don't we deal, first of all, with Hospira. Doug, can you do that?

DOUG LANKLER, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC.: Sure. We're looking at all the aspects relative beyond, obviously, biosimilars, as well. We are working closely regulators and we are very pleased with the progress that we're making. We continue to expect to close the transaction during the second half of 2015.

IAN READ: And on the oncology issues, would you like to comment upon what we expect the competition launching and then our second generation or third generation ALK ROS? And then perhaps Mikael may want to comment on some of the competitive dynamics.

ALBERT BOURLA: Absolutely. Thanks, John, for the question. In Ibrance, I spoke a little bit before and right now, we're really the only company that has randomized data there so we can make any comparisons. We have the most advanced and the most broad program in CDK 4/6.

I say more advanced because we are the only ones that have registration to start with and we have already announced positive results of a second the study in a different population. And of course we are having already initiated right now we have in this year running already four Phase 3 studies on the breast cancer. And we are running beyond breast cancer over 30 studies in multiple tumor indications. I have a lot of respect for competitors, but I think in that one we really are way ahead.

IAN READ: I think one competitor just announced that they may be finishing their Phase 3 in 2017. Is that right?

ALBERT BOURLA: In 2016. Yes. We have already registration. And for the same type, we expect the confirmatory study to come to completion at the last quarter of this year, in our case. And as Ian said before, also we have discussions with EU authorities. And we plan to file for Ibrance in the second half of this year, as well.

IAN READ: Mikael, any comments?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Yes. I wanted just to briefly comment on your discussion about our ALK franchise. I think we should look upon it as an ALK franchise where Xalkori is the most experienced drug with a very much recognized stable profile.

We shared at recent conferences, including presentations at AACR, our third generation ALK inhibitor with 3922 number name. And it's deemed really unique compound that hits all known ALK mutations including the GE 1202R. And to the best of my knowledge, it's the only compound so far that has shown strong effect for [sole] mutations independent whether the patient has experienced several of the currently available ALK inhibitors.

Moreover, several responses also against brain metastases have been reported for this drug. So I think the combined ALK franchise from Pfizer will over time be very strong. Inlyta can nicely also be combined with immuno-oncology product as per our strategy. We shouldn't see Inlyta as alone facing other entrants but we and Merck Serono are exploring immuno-oncology of avelumab, Inlyta and other agents. So I think you will see us building a strong position in renal cell carcinoma.

IAN READ: Thank you. And, John, I see the competition coming in and extending the survival time of patients with the ALK mutation as very positive for our third generation when it comes to market, as you'll have all patients have gone through our first line Xalkori, and treating second line on products of competitors and creating a more substantial patient base for our third generation ALK. Thank you for the questions.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I've got two quick ones on the product side and one on the expense side. Just on the products just if you can give us a sense of your optimism on tanezumab at this point. I know you're talking about Phase 3 now but just given the safety issues that have been raised before, do you see that as potentially a blockbuster type product deal or is it a more of a niche product just given some of the safety questions?

On Lipitor, a quick question on the real world study there. I know it's completed, it's been completed for some time. Any update on when we might see the data there?

And then just last one on the expense side, if I read the release correctly, you had quite a bit of expenses allocated to the other bucket as opposed to being allocated to one of the three specific business units. Now that we are five quarters into the company operating as three separate units how should we think about that in terms of your ability to actually split into two entities if you want to without having a significant amount of dissynergies, given that there seems to still be a lot of overlap in how the expenses are being spent?

IAN READ: Geno, tanezumab?

GENO GERMANO: Yes. Tanezumab, we see this as a real innovation, one of the first real breakthroughs in pain management in many years and a significant unmet need, overuse of opioids being a big problem. And a substantial number of patients with the conditions that we're pursuing osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and cancer pain. So, we see that this drug has significant potential.

We know a lot about this medicine. We've completed quite a number of studies and we're anxious to see it advance through this next phase of development and enter the market.

IAN READ: Thank you. Albert, real world, real life study, Lipitor?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes. Thank you. The actual use trial was completed in December. The results are expected this quarter. The results of the study will inform next steps and timelines for potential NDA filing. And we will continue to update you as we have more news on that.

IAN READ: Okay. Frank, on expenses?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. The major items in that other bucket are WRD, so Michael's organization and I'll call it corporate. Think about corporate as what we call the enabling functions. So, it's IT, finance, legal, HR, facilities, public relations, all those functions basically are what are in our corporate bucket there.

Last year, in the Q we gave you all percentage of how to allocate those various items to the segments. The key there is, in terms of the basis, so what's underpinning those percentages we give you, is really three buckets of allocation. There's, I'll call it, specific assignments, regional allocations and general allocations.

The specific assignments are about 40%, the regional allocations are about 20%, the general allocations are about 40%. We provide all that detail so that you can basically drive at the segment. And what that tells you is much of it is specific assignments in the regional allocation is very specific to an individual segment.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Just a few quick questions, a couple on the pipeline and then one for Ian. On the pipeline, maybe just to start off, maybe we could talk a little bit about when we might see data with your 4-1BB and what combinations we may see. Interestingly, we'd love to hear your thoughts on AstraZeneca's deal with Celgene and their comments on the challenges of getting into heme tumors.

The second question, just given the broad success of Opdivo in second-line lung cancer, when and how do you see your recently announced study recruiting in the US or perhaps even in Europe over the next 12 months as approvals are likely received?

And then lastly for Ian, when you say that you're agnostic to the creation of shareholder value, I think everybody has asked the question of the possibility that you go out and buy more assets. However, I do think that there certainly is a possibility of lowering your tax rate with a willingness to perhaps merge with an overseas entity, with that entity being the controlling entity. How agnostic are you truly to that kind of an outcome? Thanks so much.

IAN READ: Why don't I ask Mikael to comment on the 4-1BB? I don't really think it's appropriate for us to comment on AZ's strategy and how they go about financing their pipeline. And then on the lung cancer, perhaps Mikael or Albert can deal with that. And then I'll come back to you on how agnostic I feel.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. Thank you. As you know, we believe that the field of I-O combinations is going to increasingly be prominent. And we have invested in a broad number of I-O combinations. We'll have up to five I-O drugs in the clinic this year and expect every year probably two new entering.

Specifically for 4-1BB, we will share additional data at ASCO. We have growing experience with 4-1BB in lymphoma on rituximab background that suggests stable activity and good tolerability profile. And I think suggests that this class of combining checkpoint activators with checkpoint inhibitors may be the route to go, as we have learned combining multiple checkpoint inhibitors acetyl 4 and PD-L1 may lead to a decreasing therapeutic window, while 4-1BB we are very encouraged that the therapeutic window will be launched. And the drug is an interesting part of this new I-O combination.

I also wanted to make a pitch that we actually are now entering the clinic with our OX40 antibody that also will be planned to be explored as monotherapy and later in combination with avelumab.

Briefly, just on second-line lung cancer, as we now start avelumab into several solid tumor indications, we expect over the years of 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 to see multiple pivotal trials with that and opportunities for drug registrations for several of the solid tumors including lung cancer.

IAN READ: Thanks, Mikael. Seamus, I think you mention, I think you perhaps misquoted me there. I'm not agnostic on value. I'm agnostic on size and I'm totally focused on value. And I think you're alluding your questions about whether you're 80/20 or 60/40 to maximize your benefits. And, once again, I am open to any set of combinations that when we look at it produces clear value for our shareholders. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I have a couple. First for Frank -- isn't the full-year share count guidance, 6.2 billion shares versus Q1's nearly 6.3 billion, that difference is $3.2 billion in share repurchase. And related to that, I'm surprised the share count was not much lower in Q1 versus Q4 given the $150 million share repurchase. I guess the answer might be that you weren't expecting the stock to be so strong but maybe you can clarify.

And then, secondly, how much of the $300 million in Prevnar sales in adults in Q1 would you consider catch-up versus the cohort of people that just turned 65 and are receptive to vaccination? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the share repurchase, Steve, our projections for the end of the year is a little bit higher than the number you quoted. And we obviously factored that into our guidance.

And then in terms of the shares, from Q4 to Q1, remember, on that accelerated share repurchase we got a partial quarter benefit to that in the number because we didn't put that in place until February. So, think about it as a mid-quarter impact. But if you go to the full year we are a little bit higher than the 6.2 billion. And what's really been driving that, and it's a good issue, is stock price is higher than we thought it was going to be from a share repurchase assumption perspective, only in terms of what we assumed in our planning. It's higher than what we had planned for. But net-net, it's all factored into our guidance.

IAN READ: Okay. Albert, if you'd like to try and dissect this interesting market for adult vaccines in the US and potentially internationally.

ALBERT BOURLA: Thank you, Ian. Thanks, Steve, for the question. I don't have specific data yet as to how much is catch-up or not, but the $300 million is an indication of the significant potential of this market.

Let me run some numbers for you. Every year, 4 million adults in the US alone are turning 65. There are 27 million adults that have been previously vaccinated with PPV23 and additional 20 million adults that have never been vaccinated. That's a pool of 47 million adults in US. Both of these cohorts are now recommended and reimbursed to receive Prevnar vaccine.

And the same comes with Europe. In Europe, we have already received in the label the prevention of pneumonia for adults 18 and older. We're working country by country to ensure recommendations and thus reimbursement, which will take some time but typically is happening.

And in general we are very pleased with the First Quarter, the results. They were driven, of course, by the broad recommendation. We had the severe flu season that also played a role. And also our commercial efforts were very successful.

Going forward, in the spring months we expect revenues to moderate given the seasonality of the business, but we expect strong revenue growth will resume in the fall. And overall we expect very strong growth for the year.

IAN READ: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: A question on your immuno-oncology portfolio. Do you have any evidence to date to conclude that the ADC-enabled properties of your PD-L1 are positively significantly differentiated versus the other non factor-enabled PD-L1s that [aren't clinical] approved?

Second, is it still the case that you haven't shown any solid tumor responses with your anti-CD-137 or has that changed?

And then, lastly, perhaps you could comment on the strategic outlook of your Consumer Health business given it's a very active market out there with numerous potential buyers who I'm sure would be interested in your assets. Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Andrew. Mikael, could you take us through the immuno-oncology questions?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. I think you asked briefly about ADCs and then mainly around differentiation for our immuno-oncology assets. Maybe I'll say a few words on ADCs. We have built up seven ADCs in the clinic. You heard recently about our calicheamicin ADC, inotuzumab, showing positive and good data for the first of two primary endpoints, hematological remissions.

We have a next wave in Phase 1/2 studies. I can in particular mention one, if not four, that you think you should keep an eye on that we also believe will continue to establish ADCs as an important modality. And we are indeed quite encouraged by the idea of combining the selectivity of ADCs with immuno-oncology, so I think your question was really good by asking about those modalities.

Our PD-L1, as you know, our view is that data available today suggests that it will have a similar profile to that of other advanced PD-1 and PD-L1 antibodies that presented data in unselected patients. And as you continue to explore enrichment of patients, such as increased level of PD-L1, it is expected that response rate will further increase as well as with drug combination.

There's been some suggestion from a reported [ASR] that avelumab may also, on the positive end, pick up some ADCCs NK cells. It remains to be proven in what tumor types this could potentially be a differentiation, but so far we have said that avelumab has a competitive profile similar to the other PD-1, PD-L1. And we are very excited to advance the molecule and we'll share an update at ASCO.

IAN READ: Thank you. And on the Consumer business, it actually had a very good quarter, very good growth. So, it's a business that we like to be in. I think it's a strategically important business for us. And we will continue to develop it. And if we have opportunities to do acquisitions to grow it, we'll also look at those. So, it's a good business to be in. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow, Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: A couple of quick questions. On the biosimilar Avastin, what's your view with regards to what agencies will require for approval? Do you think response rates will be sufficient or do you anticipate needing survival data?

And also, do you foresee any issues with recruitment here given the questionable incentives to trial the biosimilar versus the innovator?

And then just last question on Xeljanz, we see you're filing both the 5- and 10-milligram doses in plaque psoriasis. Is there potential for this data set to assist in the approval for 10-milligram dose in RA? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you. Biosimilar Avastin, Mikael? Comments on that?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. I would say that for each of the biosimilars, we negotiate endpoints with the regulatory agencies. And we expect that data that indicate you have equivalent analytical on the drug pharmacokinetics and clinical profile, in general will lead to a registration across multiple indications.

I can't specifically speculate on what will be required for Avastin, but I will in general be optimistic that readouts such as response rates or PFS will be likely to confirm bioequivalence if you do have also strong robust data on the other aspects of bioequivalence. We have now five antibodies working closely with GEP in the pipeline and we are very pleased so far with all of those. Four are in Phase 3 studies.

IAN READ: Thank you. Geno, on psoriasis?

GENO GERMANO: Colin, on the 10-milligram data in psoriasis, as you know, the psoriasis patient population is a much different patient population than RA. However, as we accumulate more and more data on the 10-milligram both in RA post-marketing surveillance studies and the additional indications including psoriasis and ulcerative colitis and other indications, the database continues to grow. And that will serve as our support for continuing to evaluate the 10-milligram across all of the indications as time goes by.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: A follow-up on biosimilars on your outlook -- could you comment on some of the intellectual property barriers that you might face in bringing biosimilars to the market. And specifically I'm wondering about the Humira biosimilar that you have in development. What do you expect the timeline for that product given some of the IP that AbbVie keeps referring to?

IAN READ: Thank you, Alex. John, please?

JOHN YOUNG: I think what we would say is obviously we look at full range of considerations. When we develop our portfolio of biosimilars, as Mikael just said in answer to the previous question, we engage very strongly with the regulators to make sure that we have an appropriate clinical program. And clearly we are very mindful of the IP landscape, which frankly varies by asset, is very complex ranging from base patterns to a range of other patterns.

We work very closely with our legal team to assess the likely time of entry to the marketplace for all of our biosimilars. And we take that into full consideration when we are constructing our development program and making our forecasts for the long range.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John. And thank you, everybody, for your attention this morning.

IAN READ: Thank you. Have a good day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's Pfizer First-Quarter 2015 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150430eb4s002e8
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,807 words
   PD
27 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Fourth-Quarter 2014 Earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC: Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth-quarter 2014 performance.

Joined today, as usual, by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology, and Consumer; Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel. Slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page, Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance, Fourth Quarter 2014, which is located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussion during this call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2013 annual report on Form 10-K, and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, January 27, 2015.

We will now make prepared remarks, and then we will move to a question-and-answer session. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Chuck, and good morning, everyone.

We finished 2014 with another quarter of good performance, and met or exceeded every element of our financial guidance for the year. Frank will take you through the numbers but before he does, I want to re-emphasize how our four key imperatives have guided the actions we have taken, and the decisions we have made and will continue to guide us going forward.

These imperatives are about the steps we are taking to create a sustainable high-value pipeline, effectively and in a disciplined way deploy our capital in ways to create shareholder value, create a culture where colleagues take appropriate risks and accept accountability for their actions, and earn the respect of society. My remarks today will primarily focus on two of these imperatives, the evolution of our pipeline and how we are creating shareholder value.

When we started this journey at the start of 2011, we said improving the performance of our innovative core will be a multi-year endeavor. Over this time, we have significantly changed the composition of our pipeline to have a clearer focus on the therapeutic areas that have strong commercial and scientific potential. We have improved productivity in the pipeline. Since undertaking this effort, we have received 16 approvals as of the end of last year, 10 of which were new molecular entities.

Today, we have a total of 86 programs in clinical development, with 29 programs in late stage development or registration.

We continue to grow in key areas, most notably in some of our recently launched new products. Eliquis is winning share amongst cardiologists, and moving towards the leading position in the new to brand share in several markets, including the US and Japan. We grew our Xeljanz market share, so it is now ranked number three in new to brand prescription share with rheumatologists, and we are seeing good uptake of our Prevnar 13 adult vaccine following the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommendation.

This is good progress and over the course of the next four years, we expect to have more than 20 Phase 2 and 3 registration study starts and hope to have more than 15 potential approvals, many of them new molecular entities. These numbers do not include study starts and approvals as a result of our Merck KGaA partnership in immunooncology.

Many of the new molecular entities have the potential to be first-in-class assets that give us growth platforms. These include the CDK4/6 platform in oncology with Ibrance, or generic name palbociclib, and its potential for indications being studied in the broad spectrum of breast cancer as well as lung, prostate, head and neck, melanoma, ovarian, renal, and brain tumors in young children.

We expect to have a competitive immuno-oncology program. We believe we have a comprehensive program with all of the elements to be an industry leader.

Through our partnership with Merck KGaA and their anti-PD-L1, avelumab, we are able to accelerate our participation in the immuno-oncology space, enabling both companies to participate in the first wave of potential single agent monotherapy treatment regiments of several tumor types, some of which we expect to be first or second to market.

Additionally, through this partnership, we are positioned to be a potential leader in the next wave of I-O combination therapies. We expect to be amongst the first three companies in certain cancer indications with monotherapy and a leader with combinations of PD-L1 avelumab, with targeted agents; for example, Inlyta, Xalkori and our second-generation ALK; or dual I-O combinations, for example, 4-1BB, OX-40, ADCs, et cetera; and in various cancer indications.

This year, we'll be collaborating on up to 20 studies with Merck KGaA, with registrational intent on up to 6 of these studies. In addition, through the collaboration, we expect to have 5 different IO drugs in the clinic this year, and up to 10 by 2016. This strategy includes: checkpoint inhibitor mAbs, small molecule immuno-modulators, cancer vaccines, bi-functional antibodies, CAR-T cell-based therapy, and antibody drug conjugates.

Our partner expects to present data from their PD-L1 study at ASCO in June. To best of our knowledge, it is one of the most comprehensive I-O platforms in development in the pharma industry today.

We also have leading research on JAK biology with potential new indications for Xeljanz in Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis with our oral product, Atopic Dermatitis with a topical formulation, new GI indications in Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn's Disease, and in Ankylosing Spondylitis.

We have what we believe is a differentiated approach within the PCSK9 area for hyperlipidemia. Our lead asset, bococizumab, has a differentiated clinical trial design which includes high risk patients and also assesses primary prevention for patients. In addition to this large molecule approach, we have both a small molecule and a vaccine in development nearing first in human.

We have made progress with tanezumab, and plan to submit preclinical data to the FDA this quarter in a Complete Response to potentially lift clinical hold on that program.

In the Rare Diseases area, we're seeing good progress with enrollment in our Cardiomyopathy Phase 3 program for tafamidis, and are advancing towards Phase 3 with Rivipansel, pending our discussion with the FDA on the final optimization of the formulation. We have just announced a collaboration with OPKO for a long-acting growth hormone product that we believe could also be first-in-class and further expand that market.

We have a broad biosimilars portfolio of complex monoclonals. Of the current pipeline of five assets, three are in ongoing or enrolling Phase 3 trials and include potential biosimilars to Herceptin, Rituxan, and Remicade. We have completed a Phase 1 trial for Avastin, and expect to initiate our Phase 3 study later this year, and we have an ongoing Phase 1 proof-of-concept for Humira. We believe we can become one of the world's preeminent biosimilar companies.

There are also several potential acceleration opportunities in the pipeline that include a next generation ALK/ROS-1 inhibitor that holds the potential to significantly extend the lives of patients who no longer respond to Xalkori. We expect to start a pivotal study this year.

As you know, our Staph Aureus vaccine is currently in Phase 2 clinical trials, and was granted Fast Track designation by the US Food and Drug Administration in February 2014. A Phase 2b study that could be registrational is scheduled to start during the middle of this year.

I am pleased with the progress we have made and in a relatively short period of time in terms of the quality of the assets in our pipeline, and the potential for delivering breakthrough products starting in late 2017 and 2018.

Turning next to how the prudent deployment of capital has yielded significant returns to our shareholders. Over the last four years, we have maintained our operating margins and have taken approximately $5.5 billion out of our operating expenses, during a period where we lost significant revenue to LOEs and co-promote expiries from several high margin products like Lipitor, Enbrel in Canada and the US, and the loss of Spiriva.

This year, and for the next couple of years, ongoing expense reductions will result from continuous improvement efforts. However, given that the largest opportunities have already been realized, the amount of potential reductions is more limited. Also, there are certain areas where we will continue to invest in such as R&D and new product launches.

Further, we have returned just over $64 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends over the last four years. As we have worked to transform Pfizer, Business Development has been an important enabler of our strategy. We have entered into a series of partnerships, in-licensing agreements and made some acquisitions that have bolstered our vaccines portfolio, enhanced our established products portfolio, strengthened our oncology pipeline, expanded our Consumer portfolio, and fortified the set of assets we have across our key therapeutic areas. Given the strength of our late and mid-stage pipeline, we will evaluate business development opportunities biased towards deals with the potential for creating value in the near term.

Beyond business development, here's what you can expect to see from us in terms of additional actions we plan to take in 2015 to create shareholder value.

We will continue to invest in the launch of new products. We are excited about the potential revenue and continued growth prospects primarily for Eliquis, Xeljanz, Prevnar 13 Adult, Trumenba, Inlyta, Xalkori and Nexium 24HR.

We expect these products, along with a few others [Vyndaquel, Bosulif, Duavee, and the vaccines acquired from Baxter] including Ibrance's pending approval will generate nearly $2 billion in incremental operational revenue growth this year compared to last. So while we expect product launch costs will increase approximately 25% year-over-year, we are seeing good leverage from the investment we are making in these products.

In addition to new launch products, the Innovative business will be focused on growing market share in our major in-line brands like Lyrica, Enbrel outside the US, Viagra in the US, Chantix, and the Prevnar franchise. And our Consumer business will be focused on growing its core brands, Advil and Centrum, growing Nexium OTC market share and continuing to pursue Rx to OTC switch opportunities.

For our Established business, we will build on our success in 2014 in providing high-value, high-quality, low-cost treatments in emerging markets. We expect to see operational revenue growth of mid-to-high-single-digits in the emerging markets this year, by focusing on opportunities in key growth markets such as China, Brazil, India, Russia and Turkey.

In 2015, we will continue our efforts to establish the groundwork required to be in a position to operationalize a potential split of the Company. And we have made good progress on this work. For 2015, we anticipate the effort that will be required for this work will result in approximately $400 million of one-time costs on a pretax basis.

Let me remind you, at this point in time, we have not yet made a decision to split the Company. We have said the final decision will depend upon how our businesses perform in their markets, having a high degree of confidence that the businesses will be successful as standalone entities; and how our shareholders value these businesses -- if the sum of the parts is greater than the whole.

And in 2015, we will again be in the position to reduce our adjusted effective tax rate. We expect it will decrease from 26.5% in 2014 to approximately 25% this year. We will continue to manage our tax line as we do any other expense line, and look to be as efficient as possible.

I would note that foreign exchange is one of those items that can either work for us or against us. Most importantly, it is not indicative of how the business is performing in a fundamental manner.

As always, all of our decisions will be rooted in how best to strike the right balance in terms of capital deployment, dividends, buybacks and business development. One of the reasons I'm confident that we can accomplish all of this is because we have an employee body that is motivated and engaged in the successful execution of the initiatives we have undertaken to drive results. Over the past four years, we have created a culture engrained in a strong ownership environment.

In summary, we will build on our performance over the past four years to create a sustainable, high value pipeline. To have market leading strong commercial businesses, to manage our cost structure, and continue to be disciplined in how we deploy our capital. Collectively, these elements of our strategy that will allow us to generate results and continue to create shareholder value, and it will enable us to bring patients innovative medicines that best meet their needs.

Now I'll turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter, the year, and our finance guidance for 2015. Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC: Thanks, Ian, and good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. I want to remind everybody that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24, 2013, the financial results of the Animal Health business and the gain associated with its full disposition are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for the 12 months ended December 31, 2013.

Fourth-quarter 2014 reported revenues of approximately $13.1 billion, which reflects a slight operational increase of $9 million year over year, was mainly driven by the strong performance of Lyrica, Prevnar, and Eliquis in developed markets and Xeljanz which grew primarily in the US.

And 7% operational growth in emerging markets, driven by Lipitor mainly in China, as well as Prevnar and Enbrel, which were offset mainly by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of approximately $449 million or 3%, the loss of exclusivity for Celebrex in the US, the expiration of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement for Enbrel in the US and Canada, and termination of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries, and other product losses of exclusivity in certain markets.

Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.54 versus $0.56 in the year-ago quarter. The decrease was primarily due to a $0.01 negative impact due to foreign exchange; the 4% aggregate operational increase of adjusted cost of sales; adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted R&D expenses, driven by an unfavorable change in product mix; and increased R&D expenses, due to incremental expenses for the ongoing Phase 3 programs for bococizumab, palbociclib, ertugliflozin and certain other new drug candidates; as well as potential new indications for previously approved products, especially for Xeljanz.

Adjusted SI&A expenses, however, decreased by 2% operationally because of continued benefits for cost reduction and productivity initiatives. Partially offset by investment to support several recent product launches and other in-line brands. Adjusted diluted EPS was favorably impacted by a lower effective tax rate, and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding which declined by 159 million shares versus the year-ago quarter, due to ongoing share repurchases.

Reported diluted EPS was $0.19 compared with $0.39 in the year-ago quarter, due to the previously mentioned factors, and the unfavorable impact of a charge for the $850 million upfront payment associated with the global strategic alliance formed with Merck KGaA in November of 2014 and an additional amount of approximately $300 million, reflecting the fair value of certain co-promotional rights for Xalkori granted to Merck KGaA; higher charges related to certain legal matters, as well as the higher effective tax rate, all of which were partially offset by lower restructuring charges and purchase accounting adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2014, versus the prior-year quarter.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth-quarter adjusted revenues by $453 million or 3% and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses in the aggregate by $351 million or 4%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01, compared with the year-ago quarter.

Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments. In the fourth quarter, Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 6% operationally year over year due to the strong operational growth from Lyrica, primarily in the US and Japan, and the performance from recently launched products, including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz primarily in the US. All of which was somewhat offset by the previously mentioned expiration of the co-promotion term for Enbrel in the US and Canada.

Income before taxes declined 5% operationally due to a 5% operational increase in cost of sales; a 25% operational increase in SI&A expenses, due to increased investment in new products, such as Eliquis and Xeljanz and certain in-line brands; and a 25% operational increase in R&D expenses, due to incremental investment in late stage pipeline products; mainly bococizumab, ertugliflozin, and additional Xeljanz indications.

Fourth-quarter VOC revenues increased 14% operationally due primarily to the strong performance of Prevnar 13 Adult in the US and Xalkori globally; Inlyta in most markets; and Sutent in emerging markets; as well as Nexium 24HR in the US.

Income before taxes increased 13% operationally, mainly due to increased revenues which were partially offset by a 12% operational increase in cost of sales, driven by increased sales volumes. As a percentage of revenue, the cost of sales decreased by 30 basis points due to a favorable change in product mix.

A 13% operational increase in SI&A expenses, due to investment in Prevnar Adult; as well as launch and pre-launch expenses for Trumenba and Ibrance; and a 17% operational increase in R&D expenses, due to increased investment in the Ibrance and Trumenba development programs; and the global alliance with Merck KGaA.

In the fourth quarter, Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues decreased 7% operationally year over year, due to the loss of exclusivity of Celebrex in the US, Detrol LA in the US, and Aricept in Canada; as well as the termination of the co-promotion agreement for Spiriva in most countries including the US. All of these were partially offset by 7% operational growth in emerging markets and the strong performance of Lyrica in Europe.

Income before taxes declined operationally 9%, due to the decrease in revenues; a 5% operational increase; or a 2.3 percentage point increase as a percentage of revenues in cost of sales, due to LOEs and unfavorable changes in product mix; and a 5% operational increase in R&D expenses, primarily due to our biosimilars development program, partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses.

All of which were partially offset by a 17% operational decrease in SI&A expenses driven be cost reduction and productivity initiatives. As you can see, in 2014, we met or exceeded all components of our annual financial guidance. Now I'd like to walk you through the 2015 guidance ranges for reported revenues, reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS relative to our 2014 actual results.

First, it's important to note that the 2015 reported revenues incorporate an anticipated $3.5 billion negative impact due to continuing product losses of exclusivity and declining alliance revenues, which will be partially offset by expected operational growth of certain other products.

In addition, we expect foreign exchange to have an additional $2.8 billion negative impact on reported revenues. Consequently, we expect 2015 reported revenues to be in the range of $44.5 billion to $46.5 billion. Before moving on, I want to point out that the actual mid-January 2015 rates used to determine our 2015 guidance do not include the impact of a potential devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar or any other currency.

Reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS also include the negative impact from product losses of exclusivity, a $0.17 negative impact from foreign exchange rates, and a negative $0.03 impact from the pending transaction with OPKO. As a result, we expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.37 to $1.52, and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.00 to $2.10.

In addition, I want to remind everyone that guidance ranges for both reported and adjusted diluted EPS incorporate $6 billion of anticipated share repurchases in 2015, including $715 million of our shares repurchased to date. These repurchases will more than offset the potential dilution related to employee compensation programs.

In summary, if you exclude the anticipated FX impacts and the impact of the pending OPKO transaction, our FY15 adjusted diluted EPS guidance midpoint is in line with full year 2014 actual results, despite the $3.5 billion negative impact from expected product LOEs and declining alliance revenues.

Now I'll review the remaining elements of our 2015 financial guidance. We expect cost of sales as a percentage of revenue to be in the range of 18.5% to 19.5%. We expect adjusted SI&A expenses to be in the range of $12.8 billion to $13.8 billion. We expect adjusted R&D expenses to be in the range of $6.9 billion to $7.4 billion, which includes a planned upfront payment of $295 million to OPKO, expected in the first quarter of 2015 upon completion of the transaction announced in December of 2014. We also expect adjusted other income to be approximately $500 million, and we expect our tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 25%.

Moving on to key take-aways. We achieved or exceeded all elements of our full-year 2014 financial guidance in an environment that continues to be challenging. We advanced our strategy through pipeline advancement and business development. The FDA approved Trumenba, our meningitis B vaccine, and we announced that we are in labeling discussions with the FDA for Ibrance. We entered into a collaboration with Merck KGaA which positions us well to potentially compete in the first wave of immuno-oncology therapies, and be a leader in the second wave of combination therapies.

Our full year 2015 reported revenue guidance range includes the anticipated negative impact of $3.5 billion due to product loss of exclusivity, and $2.8 billion due to adverse changes in foreign exchange, partially offset by nearly $2 billion of anticipated operational revenue growth in certain products. The adjusted diluted EPS guidance range includes a $0.17 negative impact from foreign exchange, and a $0.03 negative impact from the planned upfront payment to OPKO.

We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. Overall in 2014, we returned nearly $12 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. From 2011 through 2014, we returned more than $64 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

In addition in 2015, we anticipate returning approximately $13 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2015 and beyond.

Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. Operator, can we please poll for questions. Thanks.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much. Ian, just a question for you, sort of high level. Based on all the press reports that we're all reading every day, it sounds like you are intensely focused on landing a large target and these articles are all saying most companies are rebuffing you.

I think this is a great opportunity for you to sort of remind us what are your strategic objectives? Do you have to make a large transaction?

And if so, is it -- it would seem to me that it's the GEP business that would need the biggest growth drivers, or is it the other areas of the business? If you could just prioritize for us which of the areas of the business make most sense for you for a large transaction, if indeed that's what you believe you need?

And then just a second question, maybe this is for Frank. On the GEP business, is it permissible for you guys to buy a foreign Company and use it as a new address when you potentially go to spin out, if you decide to do so, your GEP business? Is that actually an option? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you, Jami, for the question. Rumors are rumors. We don't comment on rumors or speculation or what they write in the press.

I would go back to my comment that BD is an enabler of strategies. Our strategy is to deploy our capital in a way that is shareholder friendly. We've been doing that through dividends and buybacks.

And we have been doing BD. I would look at BD as a potential always to accelerate incremental value to shareholders. That's the purpose of deploying that capital, strengthening our businesses.

And we look at all opportunities to do that, but we do that in a disciplined manner. We did not push beyond what we thought was reasonable to do the AZ deal.

I don't feel that we need to do a large deal. I do believe, though, that we can deploy capital in a way that it can improve return to shareholders.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then Jami, on the second question where you were specific to the GEP business. And I think the question was buying a foreign company and potentially changing the address. Now, my answer is, it's kind of one of those things that's almost impossible to speculate upon.

It's very situational, depends on lots of things, valuations, markets and the like. Tax reform is an ongoing area where I think that it's still subject to change. So I don't want to speculate on what may or may not happen as a result of some hypothetical acquisition.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Operator, can we move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks very much. Just a couple questions here.

First for Ian. I believe you mentioned that your business development is now focused on creating value in the near term, given the late-stage pipeline. I guess just first of all, is there a shift from prior focus or what we were thinking about in 2014?

And then the second question on business development. When you look at valuations resetting kind of across the biopharma space, is that reducing the opportunity set as you look at these targets, given the valuation discipline you've highlighted for Pfizer?

IAN READ: Well, I think if we'd have been concerned about the state of our research and if we hadn't strengthened our research, which we did with the deal with Merck on the immuno-oncology asset. Then we may have felt we needed to do more business development in acquiring assets in our research.

But I feel our research pipeline, middle stage to late stage, is strong. And I would rather take our capital right now and direct it to opportunities to accelerate EPS growth as I think we've got the right balance of capital allocation in the medium to long term on the innovative side. So it's just really a balance of where you're deploying your capital and where you think you have areas you want to strengthen.

That being said, if there was a piece of intellectual property that added huge value and we thought we could develop it, we would not be shy in acquiring that intellectual property. I do think that the values are high at the moment in their many sectors.

We are disciplined. But when we find an appropriate deal that will meet our strategies of strengthening our businesses and accelerating shareholder value, we feel very comfortable that we have the ability to do those deals.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from Evercore ISI.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thank you very much for taking the question. First of all, great -- congrats to Frank, great P&L management this quarter, and also for the guidance. If I may ask some R&D questions.

On the PCSK9 program, could you just update us if you would be willing to do so on the time lines and the enrollment status for the outcomes trial on the PCSK9 program?

Number two, I was intrigued by your comments during the prepared remarks, Ian, on immuno-oncology where I think you mentioned that you thought you'd be among the first three companies to launch in several or a few tumor types. Wondering if you'd be willing to tell us what tumor types you think that could be?

And then finally, on palbo, and I suppose this is more of a commercial question. But just as we all contemplate a near term launch as a clear possibility, can you help us frame the initial market opportunity? Do you expect this to be a very rapid cancer launch or something that's a little bit more tempered since these women have a standard of care today? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mark. Good questions. Perhaps Geno can you address the PCSK9 status, and then I'd ask that we'll then move to answer your questions on palbo and which products we think we could be first or second in from Albert. Geno?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC: Sure, Thanks, Mark. Regarding the PCSK9 program, our outcomes trials, we're in the process of ramping up site initiation and enrollment. This is something that we monitor frankly on a daily and weekly basis.

So we're making good progress there. We expect to be competitive with the other programs from Amgen and Sanofi in terms of timing for completion of those outcomes trials, which we currently see occurring in the late 2017, early 2018 time frame.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno. Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA, PRESIDENT ONCOLOGY, VACCINES & CONSUMER, PFIZER INC: Yes. On the question on the initial Ibrance launch uptake. We are very excited about this initial launch for two main reasons. First, we have not seen an approval of a new therapy in first-line advanced [breast] cancer in over 10 years. So there is a great unmet need.

And secondly, Ibrance has demonstrated not only a statistical significant improvement, but more importantly a clinically meaningful benefit to patients because that would be a first, and added 10 months to the standard of care. As a result, we expect the uptake to be robust.

Having said that, as with all launches, there will be some oncologists that will be early adopters, while others will wait for additional data or more experience in the field. But for this group, we already have four Phase 3 trials ongoing, two of which are expected to complete this year.

Let me say that we are working to build a broad franchise around breast cancer. We are starting with first-line metastatic breast cancer. And then we are moving fast to recurrent advanced and then to early breast cancer. And I'd like to remind everyone, that we are currently running Phase 3 pivotal registration enabling studies for all of these indications.

Now, to your question on immuno-oncology. As Ian said, this deal is transformational for our immuno-oncology program for two reasons. And the first is that it will enable us to quickly move into the first wave of potential monotherapy treatments. You asked for some examples of that; examples would be ovarian or gastric for example. And this is where we are going to see to put our emphasis rather than on indications that are more crowded as melanoma, for example.

But don't forget the second also benefit, which is enable us to accelerate our combinations program by more than two-and-a-half years. This acceleration in conjunction with our broad range of combination therapies with, Xalkori, Inlyta, Ibrance, ALK/ROS inhibitor, OX40, 4-1BB, will enable us to be the leading player in the second wave where we see also a much greater portion of the [inaudible].

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Albert. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. A couple unrelated questions.

First, Ian to slice the M&A question a different way, it's clear you have a sense of urgency to find deals that could be -- if they're shareholder enhancing. Would you care to comment on the sense of urgency to supplement the Innovative versus the Established Products? You've made it clear that you'd rather have near term accretion or value accretion versus long-term, but I want to make sure we understand that you're still committed to both or is one taking precedent?

Secondly, can you comment on Lyrica CR? Obviously, a large product that gets almost no focus. Are you planning to attempt a filing there to protect at least some of that franchise longer term?

And lastly, Albert, can you comment on Prevnar Adult versus pediatric and the progress there? And maybe share some color around the split between those two important buckets. Thank you.

IAN READ: Geno, do you want to talk about Lyrica first, and then Albert can talk about the vaccine, and I'll come back on our BD preferences or priorities.

GENO GERMANO: So, Gregg, on the Lyrica program, we continue to advance the CR program for Lyrica. We have completed several trials, and seen positive outcomes. So we're continuing to move towards a registration, and we expect to see a registration potentially ahead of the expiration of the exclusivity in the United States.

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, Gregg, on the Adult, although early, we are very pleased with the launch. And we believe it is potentially a very large and durable opportunity, given current demographics and aging trends. The Adult sales in the US were around $250 million, which was driven by higher penetration during the high flu season and of course also some inventory stocking with new customers.

Our market share jumped almost four times to 45% from 12% originally. Growth moving forward, we still expect to be strong throughout the year. Of course, keep in mind that this quarter was influenced by seasonality and some inventory build, and that can vary quarter by quarter.

On the pediatric that you asked, pediatric in fact was down this quarter due to the timing of a CDC purchases, which last year occurred in fourth quarter, and this year in third quarter.

IAN READ: Thank you. On the urgency to do business development, let me stress, the urgency I have is to create shareholder value. And if business development can do that then we will move on business development with urgency.

I don't really have a preference between strengthening either of the businesses. I think we can use business development to improve and strengthen both of them, and we will look at deals and if the deals make sense we will attempt to execute them. Thanks for the question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hello. I'm sorry, it's the same line of questioning but on inversion. So is that, in your view, pretty much off the table at this point for Pfizer or is that still something that you think you can pursue?

And then also on inversion, any visibility on when or whether Treasury might come out with a second round of regulations? Then on the pipeline, apart from palbo, if you had to pick two compounds that excite you the most, what would those be?

IAN READ: Okay. So on the inversion, Tim, inversions have not been stopped. What the potential rules of the government have done is delayed the value or potentially delayed the value realization of the inversion. So, inversions I think are being tempered by the ability to pay the target's price, given the slower realization of the inversion values.

I think it's an area that will remain fertile, while there's no change in the US tax laws. I think it's -- we're in a very uncompetitive situation with our tax code, and inversions will continue to be important as an instrument of increasing shareholder value just depending on the price you need to pay to affect the inversion. And the exact conditions of the inversion, which are very technical, depending on how you can manage your subsequent cash flows. So it's a very -- it's not an easy, general answer to what type of inversion you would want to do.

Apart from palbo, I think we have a lot of exciting products. I would probably talk about the ability to bring the Staph Aureus vaccine to market as quickly as possible.

I think bococizumab clearly has a huge potential. I think we're well placed with the clinical trial design. Ertugliflozin is well positioned. Adult vaccine, which we've just launched, has a huge potential.

So I find it difficult to really pick just two assets. I think we have a lot of assets that we can create value from, and especially the total life cycle of palbociclib.

So our new Treasury regulations, I don't know. I'm not in Washington. I can't comment. They have published a rule. They haven't finalized the rule. And clearly, there's an intent to do that. There's an intent to make it somewhat more problematic for people to plan inversions, and we'll just have to work around that. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Operator, moving on, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking my questions. I have two.

One I guess, the first one is more for Ian, obviously a lot of discussion around the M&A and what you guys are looking to do. I guess just strategically, some comments earlier about valuations and people you're approaching, maybe not wanting to go ahead with a deal.

I'm thinking strategically, isn't it tougher for you to consummate a deal when you're being so public talking about the need to do something? And the near term focus that you're mentioning now, doesn't that make it tougher to get a deal done and doesn't it just raise the prices higher?

And then, the second one is more on the pipeline. If you could talk about I-O, appreciate the comments you gave earlier and thanks for all that. Can you talk a little bit about, on the biomarker side if there's anything you can share how you're planning to incorporate biomarkers at least into this first wave of studies that you've outlined here for this year? Thanks.

IAN READ: Vamil, I'm intrigued by your comments. I don't think I've ever said we have to do a deal. I think you're reading the press rather than what I've been saying.

If I felt there was a pressure to do a deal, we would have done the deal we were trying to do last year. We are very disciplined. We don't feel we need to do a big deal.

I do feel that we have the ability and we have the balance sheet that we can use if business development can further our base of strategies, which is to strengthen either one of our businesses or to acquire in an area like immuno-oncology, which we did to strengthen where we see we can create synergy and value. So I'm a little mystified about your comment about that Pfizer needs to do a deal.

I think there's a lot of rumors running around. We, as like any management team, look at opportunities. We have the capital and the wherewithal to do the deal, should we so decide.

I don't think it's a matter of is there value, and if there's value we can get the deal done. So I'm a little -- I hope that puts in perspective for all of you where we sit on business development deals. Good to do if they create shareholder value, disciplined. If they don't, we're not doing them. Biomarkers.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC: So that's a great question on how you bring immuno-oncology to the next level. First, as you know, we have considerable experience in selecting and developing biomarkers from Xalkori, where we've obviously linked that to the drug's efficacy, and we have also learned how to drive uptake of that diagnostic to very high rates in the marketplace.

Specifically for immuno-oncology, so in our partnership on avelumab, we certainly are looking at PD-L1, high versus low tumors. And the data we see really correlates, as expected, with high response in the PD-L1 high, but we also see responses in the PD-L1 low.

We have a second wave, as you heard from Albert, on the 4-1BB and OX-40 for combination. We think that the 4-1BB is unique in amplifying cytotoxic cells, CD8 cells. So we certainly will look for expression of those cells in the tumor. Similarly for OX-40, we think it's more on the CD4 side, so that will be another marker to monitor.

But we also have programs coming on-board for key regulatory cells that may limit the overall immuno-oncology response and tumor suppressing macrophages. And we have assets coming within the next year or so on each of those particular subsets of immuno-oncology, and of course our ADC portfolio is very much supported by diagnostic. We have now two ADC's in Phase 1 that show interesting responses, and we stocked enriched by diagnostic for those.

So I hope you get the sense that we go from standard diagnostic to more next-generation diagnostic, and we'll also do the kind of future diagnostic looking at circulating tumor cells to make it even more easy to integrate in medical practice. So we really see us being a driver of this change and a pioneer in this area. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks for the background, Mikael. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. First question, just going back to business development as an enabling strategy, Ian. I think you had indicated that one of the primary reasons for the AstraZeneca transaction was the tax considerations obviously around the inversion, and being able to unleash the value of the cash that you have trapped offshore.

If you go back and look at the last transaction, your tax rate around that time was around 22%. It's gone as high as 27%, not enabling you to bring that cash back. How much consideration is there that when you do a transaction, how much impact on the tax rate are you willing to absorb if it is a US asset that you're looking to you acquire?

Second question for Frank. You've disclosed what the impact of foreign exchange is. Can you articulate or quantify what the impact is on volume and price on growth in 2014?

And then last question on R&D and Xeljanz in EU. Any update on your ability to file Xeljanz in Europe? And then the implications for the Enbrel field force over there, especially in light of Samsung filing their SB4 and anticipating to be commercializing it, at least Biogen Idec commercializing Enbrel in the back half and how you're going to be adjusting for that resource if you don't have Xeljanz there. Thanks.

IAN READ: John, thank you. As always, good questions. Why don't you, Geno, deal with the whole issue of Xeljanz in Europe. And then Frank can look at the volume question, and then I'll come back to your rather complicated question on inversions and tax rates and perhaps Frank will also help me out there a bit.

GENO GERMANO: So, John, regarding Xeljanz and the Enbrel inflammation business in Europe, we remain committed to resubmitting for approval in RA for Xeljanz in Europe. We have had recent interactions with regulators there, and a discussion on our plans for resubmission.

We were encouraged by those discussions. We continue to collect additional clinical data to support that resubmission, and our expectations are that we will resubmit by the end of the year in 2015.

Regarding Enbrel and potential competition, we see the introduction of biosimilars into the marketplace in Europe as something that's more evolutionary than transitionary. And we expect to continue to support Enbrel through the near term, and realize continued support from that franchise. So I don't see a disruption at this point with the timing that we're anticipating and the impact that we see projected for biosimilars.

IAN READ: And of course, that market in Europe is very under-penetrated given their reluctance. So there's a lot of volume there that can be accessed via biosimilars as well as the original. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: John, for the quarter, this is Company-wide. So price was plus 1%. Volume was minus 1%. Foreign exchange was minus 3%.

FX drove the minus 3% for the quarter. And as I mentioned on my comments, we're actually up operationally by $9 million, excluding foreign exchange for the quarter. For the full year, price was plus 2%, the volume was minus 4%, FX was minus 2%. If you put that together, you get the minus 4% that we reported for the year.

IAN READ: Thank you. And on the BD, I think my comments on AZ have always been that we looked at three components of value. One was their pipeline, two was the amount of operational synergies that could be achieved, and third was the financial synergies. And we were disciplined in our approach because the financial synergies were the most risky part of the equation, and in fact were made eventually more difficult to achieve by the proposed rules.

I think the net-net answer to your question about tax rates is, it all goes into the value. What is the value of the acquisition we're trying to achieve, what's the value we create for shareholders? And the tax rate, just like the synergies, just like expenses, just like everything else, is part of that value equation.

If it works, the value works, we'll do the deal. If the value doesn't work, we won't do the deal.

But of course, undeniably, the foreign companies as you've seen for most of the acquisitions that have occurred in the last year, foreign companies do have an advantage given their tax rate. And this is something that should be of concern to the US economy.

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think the only thing I'd add, Ian, is, John, in your question you mentioned before we announced Wyeth, it was 22% and we took it up to 27%. We actually took it up to 30%.

When we announced Wyeth, that we took the tax rate from 22% to 30%, and we've been I think in an effective way been able to step it down through a combination of changes in jurisdictional mix and tax planning. We've gone from 30%, to 29%, to 28%. This past year, we had said approximately 27%, we printed 26.5% on adjusted results, and now we've guided for 2015 to approximately 25%.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. The next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. I have two questions. Frank, in the context of a potential split up in the future, you've obviously set up the financials. But could you please discuss the dis-synergies and the risk of pro forma total costs being higher due to step-up costs if a separation were pursued in the future?

And then second, for Michael, could you please discuss the top three or four pipeline read-outs to watch in 2015? So specifically, what clinical trial read-outs are most important to focus on? Thank you.

IAN READ: Please, Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, Dave, the way I think about the split question you asked me is in my mind they'll be basically three key determinants to obviously whether or not we would separate the Company. One is the performance of the businesses. The second one would be our confidence level in those businesses continuing to perform successfully on a standalone basis. And then three would be how the market values those businesses, and quite frankly, is there an opportunity to create a tax efficient way incremental value.

Is the sum of the parts greater than the whole? Is there an ability to unlock that value?

That value part of the answer, in my mind, would factor in the items you raised like dis-synergies. That's all part of the value equation that we'd have to factor in to get to a net-net positive, along with the aforementioned standalone performance.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Let me mention a couple of read-outs. So obviously from palbociclib or Ibrance, we are excited to also get read-outs from our recurrent study, combining with fulvestrant that Albert spoke about.

Avelumab, our partnership with Merck-Serono around ASCO will be the first time we start to share updated data sets. And I think there will be opportunity also later to hear how combinations are progressing, and possibly late in the year that we'll also share some data on 4-1BB, our own trial that we're running in lymphoma. We also have read-outs in ulcerative colitis, middle of the year or so.

We have top line results from induction study with Xeljanz. And please remember, in Phase 2, Xeljanz had very strong induction data, among the best that has been really presented in this field. And at the JPMorgan, I also shared very robust and really interesting data from our MAdCAM antibody in UC.

So you could really look up on UC as a space where we have multiple interesting data sets. More near term, you also have an opportunity to look at inotuzumab in ALL, which we'll have analysis for complete response or complete response with incomplete hematological recovery.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks very much for the questions. First off, maybe, Frank, can you just walk us through -- we have an increase spending coming in -- well maybe not increased spending, but good cost controls overall. But is there more to achieve or be taken out of the business from here where you can be opportunistic as we head towards the potential loss of Lyrica and some incremental pressures? Or are we off an overall growth trajectory on the business, including the expense base as we think about 2015 plus?

And then separately, as we think about the PCSK9 opportunity, I think there's been a real emphasis on the outcomes from Pfizer. But Pfizer has also demonstrated an ability to succeed in the statin space without outcomes.

Just wondering, despite being third to market, how you would anticipate competing before perhaps outcomes are available? And could you be, as a third to market product, how would you expect to compete without outcomes versus other competitors who likely won't have outcomes data either? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay, Frank, on spending.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on spending, Seamus, I've said this before. Clearly, we're in the late innings in terms of cost reduction. There's still opportunity. So I think there's always opportunities.

I think there continues to be opportunities in G&A, for example, continues to be opportunities with our portfolio as the portfolio ebbs and flows. So there's clearly opportunities related to the portfolio. And that said, it's hard. Ian mentioned in his comments that we've taken out $5.5 billion in expenses and operating expenses over the last four years.

There's not another $5.5 billion, for example, to take. So it's getting harder. If you look at our results for 2014, I'll give you the full year numbers operationally.

COGS was up 2%, SI&A was down 2%, R&D was up 9%. Clearly, that upward pressure on R&D we printed $7.2 billion in 2014, as an actual number we guided to $6.9 billion to $7.4 billion for 2015. That includes the $300 million upfront for OPKO, but I think R&D, OPKO aside is going to be in the low $7 billions going forward.

So that's good upward pressure in my mind in terms of the late stage portfolio progressing in a good way. So I think that's probably more than you need. But I think the short answer is, there's always opportunities, but we don't have the same opportunities that we had several years ago because the base -- we've done a much better job I think in managing the base.

IAN READ: I'd just add to Frank's comments. That what we're looking at is a transition from dealing with some $26 billion of LOEs from 2010 through 2015, and the need to rationalize our cost base to one of being investing in the future growth. Which I think is basically the most desirable state to be in, to have top line growth, and we're investing in our Phase 3 pipeline and our innovative products.

But this management team is very good at managing our P&L and our investment and where we invest. And are prepared to do what's necessary if business circumstances change on our expense base. With that, the other question was for Geno on PCSK9?

GENO GERMANO: So, Seamus, just to respond, clearly Pfizer has a long history and heritage in the cardiovascular space. And I think that we can leverage that knowledge and obviously the data from our clinical trials to determine the best approach to the marketplace. Frankly, we really expect the PCSK9 market to emerge as a large and attractive market with the occurrence of the outcomes data and we're most focused on that.

We've obviously put our best thinking forward in our protocol designs. And should we have stronger data than the other companies in the cholesterol management arm, then we'll leverage that. But at this point, we'll have to wait and see how the data turns out, and again, our focus is mainly on the outcomes trials.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I have two questions. First for Frank.

Is the $400 million in spend for a potential Company split in non-GAAP guidance, and what happens to this number in 2016? Is it the same? Is it higher or is it lower?

And then the second question is on palbociclib. Has the FDA taken a look or do you expect it to take a look prior to April 13th at the Phase 3 trial which is under way? Thank you.

IAN READ: Frank, do you want to talk about --

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So on the $400 million, Steve, it's in GAAP, it's not in adjusted. We actually called that out in the release. It's in that bridge we give you all, that bridge is from adjusted EPS to GAAP EPS.

I think the bridge shows -- starts at the top, shows $2 to $2.10, and then we have three take aways from that. There's purchase accounting adjustments of $0.41. There's restructuring and implementation costs that has a range of $0.13 to $0.18, and then there's a business and legal entity alignment cost which is the $400 million you allude to which is $0.04.

So that's the bridge from $2.10 to $2.20 to $1.37 to $1.52. So in GAAP, not in adjusted. And we give you a bridge that breaks out how we get from point A to point B.

In terms of 2016, quite frankly as we get towards the end of the year, early next year, we'll call that number out to you. Because a lot of that depends on how we progress through the year, how the businesses perform. So that's something that we'll call out obviously later in this year or early in 2016.

IAN READ: Albert, on palbociclib, Ibrance.

ALBERT BOURLA: For Ibrance, I don't want to speculate what the FDA would like to do. But from a timing perspective, we don't expect to have the results of even an interim review of of Phase 3 before the PDUFA date. And as you know, we are already in late stage discussions for the label.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Albert. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hello. Thanks very much for taking my question. First one is for Ian. Which is just really, what do you think about business development where you use OUS cash on OUS targets as non-inversion just straight M&A type deals as a potential pragmatic way to deal with the tax situation on those overseas cash assets? Do you see potential opportunities to do that?

And then, just a few financial questions. As you want to be able to allow investors to see the value in the two separate pieces, what do you think about giving midterm guidance on the two potential separate pieces for investors to help them reach that decision and how you reached that decision?

Do you think it's reasonable to assume that this is now the floor, 2015 is now the floor in Pfizer revenues and EPS going forward? And then lastly, are you happy that we just extrapolate this year's tax rate going forward, or are there any other factors that we should consider? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. I'll let Frank answer your modeling questions. On the BD and using offshore cash for offshore deals, once again, it comes down to value, it comes down to the offshore deals often price in the fact that there's offshore cash. So you have to look at the price tag on the deals and see if they make sense.

But certainly, conceptually, you have a point. But it just comes down to the quality of the asset and the deals you're trying to do. Frank, on the other question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So let me hit the -- Jeff, let me hit the extrapolation of the tax rate first. I think the way I'll answer your question is we stepped it down this year to approximately 25%. That's down from 26.5% in 2014. So a nice decrease.

And please note that when we reduce a rate like we're doing for 2015, our intent is that that rate's sustainable for the foreseeable future. So that's how I'd answer your question.

And in terms of trying to provide guidance beyond 2015 for tax rates, given all the uncertainty in the tax environment, I think that just wouldn't be a prudent thing to do. In terms of your question on BUs and providing midterm type of guidance, we continue -- I think we're getting more and more transparent I think relative to our business units. This year, we started providing very detailed income statement information.

Come 2015, we're going to start to provide -- we'll start to provide some balance sheet information. So we're providing more and more information that I think enables a lot of good extrapolation work.

In terms of taking our guidance and peeling it down to another level, I think it's hard enough to provide annual guidance for the total Company. You then taking it and slicing by sub-ledger detail I think, it creates a level of complexity that I don't think we're inclined to do.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. First of all, can you give us an update on China? How did it perform in the quarter, and how you're expecting it to perform in 2015? Give us some trends there. Second, just update us on palbo overseas and what the timing is there.

And then on the MAdCAM, you did provide some data. And I was curious if you could comment on the dose response, and on why it will take so long to move into Phase 3? I think you said you're going to move into Phase 3 in 2016, and then I think the Phase 2s were done. So I was curious about that.

And then lastly, just on Lipitor over the counter, I know there was one study that remains before you can go back and talk to FDA. I was curious where we stand on that, and when you think you'll be talking to FDA again? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay, let's try and put it together. So if Albert can answer the palbo and the Lipitor question.

ALBERT BOURLA: We have had discussions with the European regulatory authorities on the clinical data. And it is our intention to file in the EU this year. The anticipated filing packets will build off of what was submitted to the FDA, but it's too early to provide more details on that.

Coming to Lipitor, you're right, the actual use trial was completed in December of 2014, and the results are expected in second quarter. So once we receive the results, then we will define our next steps in our efforts to bring an OTC version of Lipitor.

IAN READ: Okay. John, China.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC: So thanks for the question, Mark. So we continue to perform strongly in China. I'll comment on the GEP segment, which is the largest segment of our business in China.

Overall for the quarter, we had growth of 13%. Overall for the year, we saw growth of around about 18%.

We continue to see as we always do in emerging markets quarter to quarter fluctuation, but we continue to be very satisfied by our performance in China. Segments that are strong for us are particularly our cardiovascular franchise, with Lipitor and Norvasc performing strongly. And also a very strong performance from our anti-infectives business.

IAN READ: Thank you. MAdCAM.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. So thank you for noticing the very interesting dose response that we shared with you. We do think it represents possibly through human biology that at the mid-doses, 22 to 75 milligrams, in that range, we possibly inhibit the autoimmune cells causing disease while at the higher doses, you may also start to interfere with regular T-cells that have a protective effect.

So it is very important to have done a very thorough dose response that can allow you to select the optimal dose. And we think this may distinguish our opportunity, MAdCAM versus other endocrine antibodies that may not have been able to do such a thorough dose response and pick the sweet spot. And actually if you look at our remission data, they really perform well versus other published comparisons, although it's historical comparisons.

Concerning the time lines, so we'll certainly see if we can accelerate this, but that relates to production of clinical trial manufacturing for a potential registration study, and also to really understand how to design a study where you could best develop a drug that has this really unique tolerability profile, both for induction and maintenance therapy and how it could play as an anchor drug across many IBD-like conditions. So that's why we gave a little bit of extended time period, and we may be able to shorten that as we go forward.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Mikael. Operator, if we could take our last question, please.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. And I apologize if I ask redundant questions. I got disconnected briefly.

Ian, from your perspective, could you comment on the M&A landscape in general? Based on your conversations with management teams, are you finding willing sellers out there and is it just a matter of price?

The follow-up for Frank, and just following up on your earlier comments, how should we think about your margins for the next couple years? You're losing some high margin products.

You said most of the cost cutting is done, and you're investing in launches. So is it fair to expect somewhat stable or perhaps slightly declining margins going forward? Thank you.

IAN READ: Alex, on the price, willing sellers, price always determines whether you have a willing seller or not, normally. It's just a matter of what value you want to transfer. What I would say is I think the starting point of the prices are somewhat buoyant, shall we say, given where the marketplace is.

So that does give you some concern when you look at paying the type of prices there are premiums you need of what we see as high valuations to begin with. So we are being disciplined in how we look at that. And then would you like to answer the margin question?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, Alex, I think a very good question in terms of I'll call it the rhythm of the margins. There is some, I'll call it, some downward pressure on our operating margins. So we've got $3.5 billion in LOEs next year [in 2015], some high margin products clearly putting some downward pressure on the operating margins.

We've given guidance where you can obviously go through the line items and compute the numbers. That said, all of that's factored into our EPS guidance. And I want to reiterate what I said before.

If you exclude foreign exchange in the OPKO transaction, the midpoint of our guidance for next year is roughly what we printed in 2014, despite that $3.5 billion in LOEs. So we'll continue to manage our cost structure, obviously the opportunities aren't what they used to be, but there is some slight downward pressure on our operating margins. That is what it is.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. And thank you everybody for your attention this morning on the call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's fourth-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. This concludes the conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150129eb1r002e6
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,532 words
   PD
28 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC: Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's third quarter 2014 performance. I'm joined today as usual by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read, Frank D'Amelio, our CFO, Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development, Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer, Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma, John Young, President of Established Pharma and Doug Lankler, General Counsel. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Third Quarter 2014, which is located in the Investor Presentations section which is in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussion during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2013 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Discussions during this call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, October 28, 2014. We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a Q&A session. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Chuck, and thank you all for joining the call this morning. I'll start with a few comments regarding the quarter and then a few words about our strategy, including some remarks on our business development. Starting with the quarter, our performance was well in line with our expectations as the business continues to perform well. In our Innovative Businesses for Global Innovative Pharma, the underlying business grew 9% operationally if you exclude approximately $425 million, or a negative 13% point impact due to LOEs and the loss of Enbrel alliance revenue.

Operationally, the Vaccines business grew 19%, the Oncology business grew 17% and the Consumer Healthcare grew 4%. For our Established business, GEP revenues for the quarter were down less than 1% if you exclude the approximately $383 million operational, or 6 percentage points due to the negative impact of recent LOEs and Lipitor in the US and Japan.

We had good operational growth in several of our key products including Lyrica, which grew 16% and the Prevnar franchise which grew 18%. Enbrel remains a solid contributor to markets outside the United States and Canada where we retain marketing exclusivity, and there's good momentum of our newest products including Eliquis, Xeljanz, Xalkori and Inlyta. Specifically for Eliquis, a key leading indicator referred to as new to brand share with cardiologists continues to improve nicely. Since launch, based on the most recent data, Eliquis share has increased from 0% to 44% while our main competitor shares declined from the high of 70s to slightly above ours. For Xeljanz, the inclusion of structural data in the Xeljanz label has served as an inflection point with prescribers. We hope to see further steady share gains aided by the growing attractiveness to physicians of using Xeljanz as an effective monotherapy option.

Again this quarter, we achieved solid companywide performance in emerging markets. Revenues increased 9% operationally compared to the year ago quarter driven by growth in China and Latin America. Overall performance year to date positions us to achieve a strong finish, even after taking into account that we've transitioned to a new commercial model internally, while also adapting to ongoing external market forces.

Looking ahead, the period of high LOE impact will continue through 2016, making it difficult to generate revenue growth on a net basis. We expect the size of the impact to be substantially reduced starting in 2017. Our strategy has not changed; it is anchored upon the following pillars. Making our R&D more productive so we deliver on our pipeline, continuing to make smart and shareholder-friendly decisions on how we allocate our capital, and globally positioning Pfizer to be a market leader through organic and inorganic growth opportunities.

Regarding the pipeline, we recently achieved several regulatory milestones in our late stage vaccines and oncology pipelines. The FDA accepted the biologics license application for our mening-B vaccine with prior review and set a PDUFA data of February 14, 2015. The new drug application for palbociclib was accepted with priority review with an April 13, 2015 PDUFA date. We also had discussions with the European regulatory health authorities and intend to file palbociclib in the EU next year. The FDA approved abuse-deterrent labeling for better extended release capsules, and our investigational C. difficile vaccine was granted Fast Track designation. And the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended the routine use of Prevnar 13 amongst adults 65 years and above in the United States.

In looking at our late stage pipeline, there are multiple indications for Xeljanz that are progressing. We have completed all four Phase 3 studies in psoriasis, have Phase 3 studies underway in psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis, and there are two phase -- and there are Phase 2 studies in psoriasis for topical use, Crohn's Disease and Ankylosing Spondylitis. And we are exploring the expansion of palbociclib from advanced to recurrent and subsequent early breast cancer. In addition, we are working to advance potentially attractive opportunities that could be commercialized in 2017 and beyond. They include ertugliflozin for the treatment of diabetes, bococizumab for cholesterol lowering in high risk individuals, vaccines for hospital-acquired infections such as staph aureus and C. difficile and several biosimilars in oncology and inflammation. Given the pipeline progress being made, I believe we have good sight to improve R&D productivity.

In terms of capital allocation, we have a strong, solid track record of taking expenses out of the business, generating strong operating cash flows, and having a sound balance sheet that is a competitive advantage. We have returned significant capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. During the period 2011 through 2013, we returned approximately $53 billion and expect to return nearly $12 billion in 2014. All of this positions us well to pursue business development opportunities.

Recently, there has been a lot of attention paid to deals involving redomiciling and the proposed regulations announced by the Treasury Department which make it more complicated and also potentially limits value that could be created by US companies that redomicile. The fact that Treasury has left open their ability to make further changes without notice is of concern. For Pfizer, enhanced financial flexibility from redomiciling is certainly still one potential source for creating value. As we've said previously, will look at any business development opportunities based on strategic fit including operational, portfolio and financial synergies. We continue to evaluate a broad set of potential options on a case-by-case basis to accelerate value creation for shareholders.

Finally, a few words regarding a potential split of our business -- businesses. We have two primary businesses. I want to say that again, because there seems to be some confusion that I may have inadvertently created.

We have two primary businesses. An innovative R&D driven portfolio, which is managed through our Global Innovative Pharma and Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer segments, and secondly, of Global Established Pharmaceutical business. We have 10 months experience operating in our current commercial model with P&L information. This is providing valuable insights into the strength and challenges of each business.

In 2015, we will maintain a significant effort towards setting up the groundwork required to operationalize a potential split. What we do will eventually depend upon how our commercial business is performing in markets, how our shareholders value these businesses, if the sum of the parts is greater than the whole, and whether there are opportunities to enhance their competitive positioning which could be achieved outside of Pfizer. It is a decision -- it is important to underscore that at this point in time, we have not yet made a decision.

In summary, we have an unrelenting focus on successfully executing on our commitments so that we start 2015 financially and operationally strong and with the flexibility to take the actions that create value in ways that are best for our shareholders, patients and colleagues. Now, I will turn it over to Frank to take you through the financial details for the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts we are reviewing are included in our webcast. As a reminder, because of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24, 2013, the financial results of the Animal Health business and the gain associated with its full disposition are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for the first nine months of 2013. Now, let's move on to the financials.

Third quarter 2014 revenues of approximately $12.4 billion decreased 2% year-over-year, reflecting an operational decline of approximately $270 million, or 2%, driven mainly by the expiration on October 31, 2013 of the co-promotion term for Enbrel in the US and Canada, the ongoing termination of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries, the loss of exclusivity and subsequent multi source generic competition for Detrol LA in the US and other product losses of exclusivity in various markets. In total, LOEs and the decline on alliance revenues had a negative impact of approximately $750 million in the quarter. These are partially offset by the strong operational growth in developed markets of Lyrica, Prevnar, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Xalkori and Inlyta, as well as Nexium 24HR, primarily in the US, and by 9% operational growth in emerging markets driven by Prevnar as well as Lipitor, primarily in Canada.

Foreign exchange had a negligible impact of $11 million on reported revenues. Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.57 decreased 2%, or $0.01, primarily due to lower revenues and a 2% aggregate operational increase in adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A and adjusted R&D expenses resulting from an unfavorable shift in product mix, upfront payments to Cellectis and MedGenesis, therapeutics associated with recently announced agreements, as well as ongoing Phase 3 programs for bococizumab, ertugliflozin, pablocyclib and certain other new drug candidates.

Adjusted SI&A expenses, however, decreased by 1% operationally because of continued benefits from cost reduction and productivity initiatives, partially offset by product launch investments. Adjusted diluted EPS was favorably impacted by fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding which declined by 253 million shares versus the year ago quarter, due to ongoing share repurchases and a lower effective tax rate.

We recorded reported diluted EPS of $0.42 compared with $0.39 in the year ago quarter, due to the previously mentioned factors and the favorable impact of the non-recurrence of a loss associated with the Teuto option, lower restructuring charges and lower expenses related to cost reduction initiatives which were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a charge to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible branded prescription drug fee under the final regulations issued by the IRS during the third quarter 2014. Foreign exchange negatively impacted third quarter revenues by $11 million and had a net unfavorable impact of $10 million in the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales, SI&A and R&D. Consequently the impact of foreign exchange on adjusted diluted EPS was negligible compared with the year ago quarter.

Now, moving on to the financial highlights of our business. In the third quarter, Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals revenues decreased 4% operationally year-over-year due to the previously mentioned expiration of the co-promotion term for Enbrel in the US and Canada, partially offset by strong operational growth from Lyrica, primarily in the US and Japan and Eliquis and Xeljanz globally.

Income before taxes declined 8% operationally due to the decrease in revenues, a 12% operational increase in cost of sales, or a 1.9 percentage point increase as a percentage of revenues of which 1.5 percentage points was attributable to the loss of Enbrel alliance revenues. A 6% operational increase in SI&A expenses from increased investment in new products such as Eliquis and Xeljanz and in-line brands such as Lyrica and Viagra as well as the 33% operational increase in R&D expenses due to incremental investment in late-stage pipeline products such as bococizumab, Ertugliflozin, and additional Xeljanz indications. In the third quarter, revenues from our Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business grew 13% operationally year-over-year due to the strong operational growth of Prevnar, Xalkori, Inlyta and Nexium 24HR.

Income before taxes increased 19% operationally due to increased revenues, which were partially offset by a 12% operational increase in cost of sales driven by increased sales volume. As a percentage of revenue, cost of sales decreased by 0.2 percentage points due to a favorable change in product mix, and there was a 13% operational increase in SI&A expenses due to Nexium launch costs and Prevnar adult investment and prelaunch expenses for palbociclib and our meningitis B vaccine candidate. R&D expenses, however, decreased 10% operationally due to lower cost for certain oncology programs, partially offset by increased investment in the palbociclib and mening-B development programs.

In the third quarter, Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues decreased 6% operationally year-over-year due to previously mentioned product launches of exclusivity and the loss of alliance revenues and an operational decrease of Lipitor in US and Japan. Income before taxes declined 4% operationally due to the decrease in revenues, which is partially offset by the decreases in cost of sales, SI&A and R&D expenses which included increased spending on biosimilar development programs.

Now, moving on to our 2014 financial guidance. We're updating certain components of our 2014 financial guidance based on our year-to-date performance, recent changes in foreign exchange rates in our outlook for the remainder of the year. It's important to note that this guidance does not include an adjustment for the potential devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar or any other currency. We are narrowing our adjusted revenue range to $48.7 billion to $49.7 billion from $48.7 billion to $50.7 billion. We are narrowing and lowering our adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of adjusted revenues range to 18.5% to 19% from 19% to 20%. We are narrowing our adjusted SI&A expenses range to $13.5 billion of $14 billion from $13.3 billion to $14.3 billion. We are narrowing our adjusted R&D expense range to $6.9 billion to $7.2 billion from $6.7 billion to $7.2 billion. We now expect other income to be approximately $400 million versus our previous expectation of about $200 million. We continue to expect our adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 27%, which does not assume the renewal of the US R&D tax credit. If renewed, the effect would not be material and we would not anticipate any impact on our 2014 adjusted effective tax rate guidance.

We are narrowing our reported diluted EPS range to $1.50 to $1.59 from $1.47 to $1.62, and we are narrowing our adjusted diluted EPS range to $2.23 to $2.27 versus $2.20 to $2.30.

Now, moving on to key takeaways. We narrowed our guidance ranges for adjusted revenues and adjusted diluted EPS. We recently achieved several key R&D milestones related to palbociclib, our meningitis B vaccine candidate, Prevnar 13, and our investigational C. diff vaccine. We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.

To date in 2014, we've returned approximately $5 billion in dividends to shareholders and repurchased $4.2 billion, or approximately 140.4 million shares, and we continue to expect to repurchase approximately 5 billion of our common stock this year. These repurchases and planned repurchases for the remainder of the year are expected to reduce total shares outstanding year-over-year by a total of approximately 100 million shares by the end of 2014 after considering actual and projected dilution related to employee compensation programs. In total, we expect to return nearly $12 billion via share repurchases and dividends to shareholders this year. In addition, last week the Board of Directors authorized a new $11 billion share repurchase program to be used over time.

Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2014 and beyond. With that, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank and Ian, for your comments. At this point, operator, can we please poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just a few here on bus. dev. First, I just want to make sure I'm clear on your comments. Do you still see meaningful value to Pfizer from inversion? Or should we be thinking about larger deals having to be much more driven by operating synergies and pipeline opportunities relative to 6 or 12 months ago? The second question is, how does potential for future Treasury action factor into that analysis, in terms of -- can -- do you really know what Treasury ultimately does, and does that affect how you are thinking about this? And then the final one is a broader one, which is relatively to a year ago, it seems like Pfizer is much more focused on business development. This question for -- what has changed over the last year that it seems like you are just trying to be a big value creating event for shareholders that didn't exist maybe one or two years ago? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: I appreciate the questions on BD. I just want to make the point that BD is not a strategy, it's an enabler of the strategy. I don't want to get us totally focused on BD and not on the strength of our underlying business, the development of our pipeline, and I think both our prepared remarks have gone through that. I won't repeat it here, but I do want to stress that we feel the strategies we put in place on improving our innovative core and getting capital allocation right are working and working well. The rules -- our proposed rule changes on inversions have not stopped inversions. If you are between the 80% and the 60%, I think it's fair to say they have made it more difficult and perhaps changed the timing on realization of the value. But we still believe on a case-by-case basis, there is meaningful value to be had from inversions. And probably the most significant is the liberation of a substantial proportion of your future cash flows outside of the US tax system into a territorial system.

The next question, I believe was future Treasury actions. I can't predict what they are going to do, so no one can. It's worrying that we are put in this -- the US businesses are put in this uncertain situation and that US companies are put at such a competitive disadvantage because of the foreign competitors, both on the tax rate and also the uncertainty of the rules. But that's where we are today, and that's what we have to live with.

I think what it means is as you look at an inversion, you need to thoroughly understand case-by-case what the inversion target is, what your capabilities are and how you intend to realize the values. And there should be multiple ways of realizing such value because you can't anticipate the rule changes the Treasury may put in place. So, all of that will be factored in, I think by anybody who intends to do an inversion deal.

And then I think from your question about why more focus from Pfizer now on BD, I think you've got to look that in the context of when this team took over the Company back in late 2010, we were really focused on fixing our innovative core, working with Michael to make sure that our science organization was best in class, advancing our pipeline, getting our capital allocation right, getting our expense base rate, getting our culture where we want it to be. And I think through 2011, 2012 and parts of 2013, we got where we wanted to be and we felt very confident about our ability to take on a BD or a bolt-on or a large size and ensure we maximize the value of any such BDs. So, I think that explains the timing. Thank you for the questions.

CHUCK TRIANO: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Ian, what have been the key learnings since the decision to separate your businesses internally? I realize it's only 10 months, but I'm sure you've learned some goods and bads. And maybe part B of that question is a hypothetical. If someone were to offer you a price for the EP business and could run it in a more cost and tax efficient manner and that Pfizer shareholders could benefit from that, would it even be possible at this point, or soon, from an operational standpoint? In other words, has enough separation work occurred to enable that type of hypothetical to be a reality? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. I'll deal with the learnings and I will ask Frank to talk about the hypothetical of this more immediate separation. I think the learnings are what we basically expected, it's the power of focus. It's the power of having a leader and the team focused on established products with John Young leading that. With crafting strategies that address the specific issues of the EP business, of driving that business in those countries without losing focus on what the strategies are for that business. It's about having John working on growth opportunities, his team looking for growth opportunities. I think it's back to the whole area of give a team an objective, make it clear, make it focused and let them go at it. And if you've got good people, they will come up with extraordinary results.

So, I think that's the learning on that, and we continue to be pleased with the way John's approaching his, the way Albert is doing it with VOC and the way Geno is doing it with GIP. These growth rates in Eliquis and Xeljanz and Lyrica are a result of a great management team working, and Albert also, with the growth in the Vaccines Oncology. So, I'm very pleased with the focus we are achieving. With that, I will hand it over to you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Gregg, in terms of the timing, the way I'll answer the question relative to, for example, our Established Products business, the way to think about this is, is it a public transaction or a private transaction? If it's a public transaction -- by the way, I know your example is a private, one, I'll get to it. If it's a public transaction, so a reverse Morris trust, a partial spin, a complete spin, a partial IPO, a partial IPO followed by a split, three years of ordered financials required. Then that would be three years of prospective orders of financials. Think about that as 2017.

If it's a private transaction -- by the way, your example was a private transaction. So, we sell an entire segment to someone or we're going to sell a partial element of a segment or a joint venture with a minority interest or a joint venture with a majority interest, then it's subject to what's called a significance test. And then there's three tests within the significance test. There's an asset test, an income test and an investment test. The asset test is the target's assets as a percentage of the acquirer's assets. The income test is the acquirer's income as a percentage of the acquirer's income, and then the investment test is the acquirer's investment in the target as a percentage of the acquirer's assets.

If all three tests are below 20%, no ordered financials are required. If any one test is between 20% and 40%, one year of ordered financials is required. If any one test is between 40% and 50%, two years of ordered financials are required, and if anyone test is greater than 50%, two years of balance sheet, three years of income statement, cash flow, comprehensive income and shareholders equity are required. Given the size of our Established Products business, it's very likely one of the tests, if not all, would be greater than 50%.

IAN READ: Gregg, you can see that we've given this some considerable thought and continue to be working on this and leaving no stone unturned in ways of trying to achieve our objective here. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.

VLAD NIKOLENKO, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Actually Vlad Nikolenko sitting in for Mark. Again, congratulations with a great quarter. I have a couple of questions about the R&D update. Wondering if you can provide more color on the level of confidence for the ongoing palbociclib filing, which is -- our understanding it's based on Phase 2 data and the plans how to use the Phase 3 data. Also, I want to know if you can give more highlights about the ongoing PCSK9 program. And finally, just to give more sense about the state of the pipeline because currently, published pipeline has more than 80 programs at different stages of development, some of the my label extensions. What do investors have to focus on besides palbociclib and PCSK9 and vaccines that you've already mentioned?

IAN READ: Good questions, which we welcome answering. I'll ask Albert to deal with the palbo issue. Geno with the bococizumab, and we will ask Michael to give you a succinct description of the portfolio on what we are excited about.

ALBERT BOURLA, PRESIDENT OF VACCINES, ONCOLOGY AND CONSUMER, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Vlad. For palbo, as you're aware, we've submitted our filing and FDA has accepted the NDA and gave us priority review. And we have a PDUFA date which is on April 13. This filing was based on Phase 2 data. To date, FDA has not placed any conditions related to submission of Phase 3 data results during the NDA review. In fact, we do not expect to have any Phase 3 data before the PDUFA date. There is an interim review built into the protocol, which is event driven, and so I cannot speculate when that will happen. But this interim review will not happen before the PDUFA date. So, we are looking forward to continue working with the FDA so we can bring this product to patients as soon as possible.

IAN READ: Thank you. Geno?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC: The palbociclib, the PCSK9 program is progressing. We are in Phase 3. We've been enrolling for about a year, now. We have a fairly extensive Phase 3 program with five LDL trials and two cardiovascular outcomes trials. This differentiates our program from others in the category. I believe we are the only one with a cardiovascular outcomes trials in the high risk patients who are unable to get their LDL levels below 100 on maximum doses of statins.

This is a patient population where we are likely to show a benefit. And in the event that reductions in LDL levels to very low levels don't show the linearity that we are looking for, we think this patient population will still show the benefit. We have a second cardiovascular outcomes trial in a broader patient population, testing whether reducing LDL levels below the current recommended levels will confer an additional morbidity and mortality benefit. It's a robust program. We're moving quickly to enroll patients and we are on track.

IAN READ: Mikael some comments on the other products outside of those near term?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC: Absolutely. The way to look upon the pipeline is, as you said, we have more than 80 projects across Phase 1 to registration. And when you look at the late stage, I would encourage you to see there's four potential (inaudible) franchises supporting GEP, VOC and GEP. And you are aware of palbo for VOC, for GIP boco and Xeljanz lifecycle management. As you've heard, Xeljanz is really picking up pace already, and there are multiple indications that the following, psoriasis, oral ulcerative colitis, psoriatic arthritis and a QD foray. And then finally for GEP, the biosimilars which are moving to 4, soon in Phase 3 and one additional in (inaudible) starting.

There is also an upside that we haven't discussed a lot, and that is progress that we're making on tanezumab in preclinical safety in dialogue with the agency. And we look forward to concluding this data with a potential opportunity to get back on a dialogue to restart that program, pending, of course, good data and so on agency dialogues. You already mentioned vaccines, and I expect that we'll see in the middle of next year that we will have six different programs in addition to staph C. diff. We also have therapeutic vaccines now coming that includes (inaudible) cancer vaccine, and I encourage you to see that as a whole technology platform that we have built. In immunology inflammation, in addition to the tofacitinib oral program, there are now additional opportunity in psoriasis, we have recently seen encouraging data for our topical version of tofacitinib in both dermatitis and psoriasis, and we are designing a new generation of JAK inhibitors for psoriasis, as well as for IBD.

In cardiovascular metabolic, we have generated encouraging data on a novel PD5 inhibitor for diabetic neuropathy. And we have another drug, CS-25 that is reading out in the next one or two months. Oncology, there is a very nice midstage pipeline with GSI drug for genetical altered triple-negative breast broad program around slow and hematology, and we have recently seen encouraging Phase 1 data for our ALK follow on drug 3922. As you are aware, we are building an increasingly robust immuno-oncology second wave program and we are now, for example, dosing 41BB on top of PD1 in partnership with Merck. Recently, we moved our fifth antibody drug conjugate into the clinic and are addressing multiple solid tumors. These were just a couple of things that I think will deliver a lot of momentum over the next two years.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, operator.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman from UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, I'm not sure if Geno is on the line, but if he could talk about the oncology business and maybe specifically some of the products. Inlyta, Xalkori, some of these products look that they are slowing down a little bit, so I was curious what's happening there. And then I believe we got into the oncology just at the end there about how you are positioning yourself for the future, but I'm curious how you are thinking about immuno-oncology and the products that you are working on. And then on biosimilars, could you tell us, the four Phase 3s, has anything moved forward? When should we be expecting the Phase 3s to finish?

IAN READ: Okay. I will ask Albert, who has responsibility for oncology business, to make some comments on SUTENT and Inlyta and (multiple speakers) Xalkori. Basically our late -- our inline products. And then on the positioning, perhaps, of the -- for immuno-oncology, I would ask Mikael to make a comment on that. And then on biosimilars, John can make a comment. Thank you.

ALBERT BOURLA: For the Inlyta, we said for the quarter, 23% growth, operationally. US was 9%. In US we had a strong uptake in the academic setting. What we are working now is to make sure that we have a strong uptake also in the community. We have numerous programs that are in place to achieve that.

In EU, Inlyta was quite impressive, 32% growth for the quarter. Over there, the results are driven basically by positive ESMO guidelines, but now are endorsing Inlyta as a standard second line treatment option. And also, we saw this year improvement in our reinvestment status. Right now, we have basically all 16 EU countries reimbursing Inlyta.

If I go to Xalkori, Xalkori, we were very pleased with the performance, we have 55% growth operationally for the quarter, US, 33%. It's driven by clearly an increase, testing for the ALK gene mutation. Right now, we are at 74% testing. To remind you, we started the launch at 11% and a year ago, it was 60%. A significant improvement. In the EU, the growth was even more impressive, 74% for the quarter. That again is driven by ESMO treatment guidance, but also we had positive data from the PROFILE 1014 study which we released, and that is driving a lot of these results in Europe. And finally in Japan, Xalkori had 43% growth and is driven by, again, the new data of PROFILE 1014 that have compared Xalkori to the standard chemotherapy.

IAN READ: Thank you very much. So, if we go to the positioning on immuno-oncology?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, we are enthusiastic about immuno-oncology rising as a new modality in oncology. And as you know, it has been durable, but many are partial responses. We see the next level of immuno-oncology to go to deeper and more complete responses, and that's where we really are focusing our current efforts strongly to be a leader. I mentioned briefly that our 41BB is now dosing on top of PD1 in a partnership with Merck. We have partnership to study 41BB on top of CCR4 with KHK, and we are moving additional checkpoint modulators into human studies, export early late next year, late next year, I want PD1.

In addition to the checkpoint drugs, a think you will see not only IO plus IO combos, but IO plus targeted agents. And we are working in a partnership with Merck studying PD1 plus Inlyta and planning to study PD1 plus Xalkori together. A second modality beyond the IO checkpoints are cancer vaccines where we are planning during next year to start our first out of a series of cancer vaccine clinical studies. We also have our own platform of bifunctional antibodies that will start delivering human agents in 2016. And as you know, we did select this partnership around core T-cells. So, we are playing very broadly with the leading technologies and assets, and our goal is to move one to two immuno-oncology agents in the class, as I described, every year for the coming period into human studies, mainly focusing on combination, which we think will deliver the utmost value of deep, more durable responses.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. John?

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC: Just as a reminder, in our first wave, we have five monoclonals in our biosimilar portfolio, primarily in oncology and inflammation indications. There's three biosimilars that are already in Phase 3 studies that are ongoing or enrolling our biosimilar for rituximab, biosimilar for trastuzumab and a biosimilar for infliximab. So, those Phase 3 studies are ongoing already. As Mikael mentioned earlier on, bevacizumab, biosimilar bevacizumab has just recently completed, successfully completed Phase 1 study. The next milestone for that in development would be the initiation of Phase 3, and we have adalimumab biosimilar which is currently in Phase 1. Those studies are progressing well, and we anticipate bringing this portfolio to the market in the 2017, 2018 timeframe.

CHUCK TRIANO: Moving to the next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: A few questions. You stated, I think, that you would file palbociclib in the EU in 2015. Is that based on the same Phase 2 data that you submitted to the FDA so the filing could be early in 2015? Or is it based on some look at Phase 3 as well, which would probably push the filing to later in the year?

And two questions for Ian, and I apologize in advance for both. But why the very deliberate comment on two businesses rather than three when the Company is giving financials on three businesses and has been talking about three businesses for several years? I know you've been talking about two companies or two businesses in recent calls, but why the need to emphasize it now? Secondly, I'm not clear on the benefit to Pfizer of saying an inversion is still possible. Is it, for instance, to prompt further Treasury clarification or for some other reason? Thank you.

IAN READ: I'll ask -- on the -- on saying -- I was answering a question about whether we still thought that inversion was a viable strategic component of any deal. We still believe it is. I was answering a question. So, I think that explains why answered it that way. There was no ulterior motive beyond that of reassuring investors that while the rules have changed, we still believe in the appropriate circumstances that inversions can be part of the value mix of a deal. And -- although we can do deals and we do see value in deals with that inversion as it still remains part of our overall mix. So, I hope explains that, Steve.

On the two businesses, the reason I was so -- I've been talking to investors, and I believe there is a confusion out there. We have two businesses. We report one of the businesses in several -- in two segments. We have our business which is Innovative business, which relies on our core research and our core capabilities and which I see is an integral business is made up of Oncology and Vaccines and Consumer and what I would call traditional Innovative. That is, as I see it, one business. And the fact that we report it separately is really an artifact of the SEC rules on segment reporting and depending on your management construct and who reports to the CEO. I think that's led to some confusion in the investment community that we see the Company as made up of more than two business segments. So, I see two business segments, one that's Innovative, using those resources as Innovative, and one that is Established using -- and those are the ones that John runs. I just wanted to make that clear. And most of the work we're doing on optionality is around those two businesses, not around more than those two businesses. Palbo in the EU?

ALBERT BOURLA: We have had discussions with European regulatory health authorities on the (inaudible) date. And it is our intention to file in the EU, and that filing will happen in 2015. I don't want to be more specific, if it's going to be beginning or the end of 2015, it's going to be 2015. Now, the anticipated the filing packets will likely look similar to what was submitted in US to the FDA.

IAN READ: Okay.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Albert. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Colin Bristow from BofA Merrill Lynch.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: On BD, immuno-oncology part, it seems to continue to grow as potential indications continue to grow, making it arguably more attractive for those who aren't first to market. How are you thinking about this space with regards to your business development priorities? And then just on Xeljanz, there's obviously a couple of competitor JAKs on the horizon. How do you view the competitive threat and Xeljanz's positioning? And you said on track for a filing in the first half of 2015, for your once daily formulation. Thanks.

IAN READ: Albert can -- sorry, Geno could talk about the Xeljanz situation, and then I'll come back on the BD.

GENO GERMANO: I think we are very pleased with the progress we're making with Xeljanz. We see continued adoption by the rheumatology community. We have about a 10%, now, share of new-to-brand patients from rheumatology, which is a nice leading indicator where that business is going. Obviously, the rheumatology community is getting more and more comfortable with Xeljanz. A majority of the use of Xeljanz is used in what I call methotrexate-free regimens where patients who have difficulty with methotrexate are finding adequate therapy with Xeljanz, which is great. So, it's becoming entrenched, it's becoming established, and we think that's going to speak well for its competitive position in the future. We are still on track for first half filing for the once a day.

IAN READ: On our immuno-oncology BD activity, I agree with you that I think the value is in combinations. You've all seen the results with PD1. There are some durable responses in monotherapy, but our belief is the true power of the immuno-oncology will be from combinations, perhaps on two or three combinations. And so we are focused in developing our second wave immuno-oncology and our vaccines and the CART technology and are clearly open to any type of business development which would give us access earlier to a PD1-type portfolio that we could more easily integrate and combine with our second wave.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have two questions. First, regarding the net cost outlook. Frank, could you just talk about how investors should think about cost trends going forward? And maybe you could weave in some comments about the potential for some increased cost if you are building up two business segments from the one that currently exists globally? And then with respect to palbo, I'm just curious, what should investors focus on in terms of timing of next key palbociclib readouts in case the FDA does not improve palbociclib on the first cycle review next spring? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay Frank, do want to go into net cost and then Albert can look at the --

FRANK D'AMELIO: Dave, the way I think about cost trends going forward is kind of by starting with, where are we? And I think where we are now, and I've said this before, is we are in the late innings, I think, on cost reduction. There's always more opportunity to be more efficient in everything that we do, but I think the big ticket items are behind us. We've basically gotten those identified, we've gotten those implemented, we've gotten those executed and they are obviously in our results. So, I thing going forward, there'll be some opportunities, but the big-ticket opportunities, from my perspective, are behind us.

The one thing I always say, through, about just managing cost is, I'm making every statement based on the hand we currently have. To the extent that we expand that hand through whatever, collaborations, partnerships, business development, then that gives us opportunities once again to be efficient on a going forward basis. I think late innings, we've taken a bunch out. Still some more we can take out, but the big-ticket items are primarily behind us. In terms of frank increased cost going forward, I think the way I'll answer that is if we look at this year to last year, so 2014 to 2013, the one area where you see a fairly sizable increase is in our R&D spend.

If you look at our guidance for the year now, we just tightened it to $6.9 billion to $7.2 billion. If you take midpoint of that range, just for analytical purposes, compare it to last year, our R&D spend year-over-year is up $0.5 billion. It's the late stage assets that we talked about plus the business transactions we did with Cellectis and MedGenesis. You see some pressure on the R&D spend, at least in 2014 versus 2013. Beyond 2014 going into 2015, we'll obviously give guidance on every line item when we get on our next earning calls where we close out 2014 and provide guidance for 2015.

IAN READ: Frank, I think you want to comment on -- I think the comment was, was there any ongoing expenses of setting up the two businesses?

FRANK D'AMELIO: In terms of optionality, the short answer is, there are. They haven't been material on a year-to-date basis, but we are clearly incurring expenses, give or take about $50 million this quarter, roughly twice that year to date. That will ramp up as we go into 2015 and obviously, I'll call that out on a going forward basis.

IAN READ: There are two types of expenses, of course. One is just the ongoing, which I think are very modest structural expenses of running and collecting information for two businesses and the other, which is more one-off and one-time as you set up your structures and your tax planning, et cetera, et cetera.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Okay. Albert, on the?

ALBERT BOURLA: Palbociclib. David, right now we are focused on getting in US registration, based on our Phase 2 submission. FDA has accepted the submission, has given us priority review, we have a PDUFA date of February 13. We are looking forward to bring in the product to US based on this submission to the US patients as soon as possible. In Europe, as we just said, we also plan to submit in 2015, with a similar packet.

I can tell you that there are several studies that we are moving on. We had PALOMA-2, which is a Phase 3 study. But is expected to come to completion at the end of 2016, so the report sometime in March 2016. This is a replica of our Phase 2 study. We have two additional studies that will give us additional registration indications which are recurrent, and one of them is expected to come to completion, again, next year. And then we have one registration study, one Phase 3 study, which is recurrent advanced, in early stage with high risk of recurrence. And this is expected to come into completion sometime in the 2019 timeframe. As I said, our focus right now is to bring the first indication, which is first-line advancement of study in US based on our submission in -- that happened this August and had a PDUFA date of April 2015.

IAN READ: I suppose, David, to your question, that while we are working with the FDA to get approval in the April time frame of palbo, if they decide not to approve on that, then we have the replica, which we will report out towards the end of the year with interim look at some point in the year when the -- if they hit the number of events. I think the more important thing is that we have already started the trials to expand beyond advanced breast cancer in intermediate and early. And that lead is not a lead that will be eroded by the decision on when we get approval for advanced breast cancer. Because the fact that we started those trials now and our competitors are not in the position to start those trials because they don't have the data, if you look at it from a competitive point of view, there is competition for advanced breast cancer, which may become more intense if our approval is delayed until the end of our Phase 3 trial. But I don't see that having and the implications on the competitive position on the intermediate or early breast cancer, which is a far larger percentage of the market longer-term. I hope that explains how we see the dynamics of that market.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Ian, a want to go back to capital allocation. I think the market is saying that you need to do something bold and just wondering if you agree with that? And if so, how would you -- what would you define as bold? And what is your timeline? We've been talking about capital allocation and doing something bold now for several quarters. How we thinking, in terms of timing? Thirdly, I think that the AstraZeneca deal was thought of as a potential carveout opportunity. Would you consider -- I think the GEP business as a business that really has limited longer-term growth visibility whereas the Innovative business, we see pipeline assets that would drive future growth. Can you describe your options, options available to you in the GEP business? I think you've described incremental options. But is there something you could do in that business that's on the bolder side? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Your characterization of something bold -- going back to the issue, we have a great sense of urgency inside Pfizer to continue to accelerate returns to shareholders. So, to the extent that BD will allow us to do that, then I am willing to take bold actions. And I believe that the initial approach to AZ was a bold action, one that we couldn't get to the right value equation and so the deal didn't progress. Certainly, I feel a sense of urgency on utilizing our balance sheet and our capital to do deals that are incremental, add incremental value and certainly add revenue growth in the innovative space. We are looking at all alternatives, and we are aggressively looking at all alternatives.

Now, in the GEP space, I think we said that -- I think the GEP business is somewhat difficult to analyze. I understand that. But, it's made up of what is really a great emerging markets business, which today represents about 30% to 35% of the total GEP business and is growing. That business is based on brands and quality and out-of-pocket, and I would model it more like I would model a consumer business, frankly. Then the rest of it is around peri-LOEs, which are highly profitable, and managing a pipeline that's mature in the developed markets. We are looking at ways to add additional growth levers to that business such as biosimilars, which we are investing in. And we are also looking at other types of acquisitions where we can use offshore cash, so it's highly efficient, or even where I'll we would do acquisitions that are in specific areas such as sterile injectables. I believe there are lots of opportunities to do BD in that area so as to add growth.

I thank you for your encouragement to be bold. We are looking at bold ideas. We are looking aggressively at using BD and we have a sense of urgency. Thank you for your question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, operator.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei from BMO.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Just a follow-up on the biosimilar comments earlier. Just at a higher level, could you comment more specifically at the commercial opportunity? I think it's fair to say that expectations for biosimilars have come down recently. How should we think about the process, the commercial process for your meningitis B vaccine? Thank you.

IAN READ: I will ask John to talk about biosimilars, and then Albert can talk about the mening-B. Thank you.

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks for the question, Alex. First thing to say if obviously, the biosimilars market is really one that is still evolving. We are still seeing regulators around the world put into place their guidance around biosimilarity and the development pathway for biosimilars. That's the first comment to make, is that marketplace is still in evolution. That said, it's estimated by independent analysts as being a market that is around about $100 billion globally. The biotherapeutics marketplace overall, that biotherapeutics marketplace is going to grow to about $250 billion by 2020. So, the market for biosimilars in that context potentially could grow as a market opportunity from around about $1 billion today to about $18 billion by 2020. Those are the general ranges that you actually see from independent analysts about the potential for this marketplace.

So, I think beyond saying that we see it as being a significant opportunity and saying that we believe we are well placed with our first wave of biosimilar assets, which as I commented already, we are progressing as expeditiously as we can. And we believe we'll be well placed in that marketplace. I think the general comment would he that, clearly, there's much water to flow under that bridge, but we are continuing to be very actively engaged in both monitoring and also engaging with regulators in the space.

IAN READ: Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: From the mening-B vaccine, look, mening-B disease, is devastating, is characterized by rapid onset. Has very high rates of fatality, up to 20% of the people that get mening-B die from it. Usually within 24 hours. Many that survive will have permanent long-term (inaudible). This introduction, it is an important product for the patients to start with, and addresses the high unmet medical need. On the commensurate front, we believe that will give us a modest contribution to our revenue line, given the magnitude of our vaccines business.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Albert. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford from Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Just going back to the capital allocation, timing of business development. For Ian, really, just wondering around what your thoughts are about a potential for tax reform now that this has become such a focus for everybody. Do you potentially get paid to wait on doing business development? It depends on what your view is around the likelihood of that happening into next year. Just wondering if you could talk about some of that. Thank you.

IAN READ: Jeff, I think it's an interesting question. Clearly, there is that dynamic going on about what you are willing to pay for inversions vis-a-vis what you believe is the opportunity for fundamental reform in the US. I think we will know a little bit more after the midterm elections. But historically, you don't get tax reform unless the President of the United States puts a lot of his credibility and weight behind it. There are just too many factions and too many ways of dividing the cake and you need -- you really need the White House to take the lead in that.

And so if you are a betting man, you would suspect that fundamental tax reform would not occur until post the 2016 presidential elections. But, in politics, you never know. It's day to day. We will look at that after the November 4 and continue to factor in the elements you comment in what we think the value and inversion is worth. Thank you for the question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Vamil Divan, Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: My first question is on the BD side. You touched on a couple of things like sterile injectables and maybe immuno-oncology. Are there any other areas that you highlight in terms of where you are looking to do more investing in? Do you really have a preference between investing on the Innovative side of your business as opposed to the more Established side? My second question, just following up on your comments around Xeljanz, earlier. You mentioned as being more now in methotrexate-free regimens, I believe. So, have these patients actually tried TNFs, or is it before TNFs? And anything you can update on your latest timelines around resubmitting into EU? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. On the business development, I think in the GEP business, there's a wide range of opportunities that stem from local investments using offshore cash to larger type investments to have capabilities in how to make generics. We just did a small acquisition in that area on Innopharma. So, there are a multitude of opportunities, and that's what John is looking at and going through in trying to isolate with the best opportunities would be.

From a point of view of, do we have a preference between GEP or Innovative? Everything is driven by value and portfolio balance. You would expect the larger scale acquisition to potentially cover both businesses. It may not do. Those are all the things we factor in. And then there was a question on Xeljanz (multiple speakers).

GENO GERMANO: On Xeljanz, about half the patients on Xeljanz have gone from methotrexate to Xeljanz, and about half have them been on a biologic -- one or more biologics. So, it's a mix. And then in terms of resubmitting in Europe, we intend to resubmit late in 2015 to the Europeans.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

CHUCK TRIANO: In the interest of everybody's time, operator, if we could take one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Your final question from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Just wondering if Mikael could talk to us a little bit about the differences in the bococizumab clinical trial design versus competitors and your views on the -- on how that is differentiated from competitors and why you think bococizumab is going to be a competitive offering in that space.

IAN READ: Okay, Seamus, Geno tried to do it, I will give Mikael a chance to make it clearer this time around. And Geno should feel free to add anything if he thinks Mikael hasn't covered it.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: I'll build on Geno's excellent description why we think that the way we are developing bococizumab and importantly, the learnings we did in place to be that it was very extensive that allowed us to design what we think is a very comprehensive, broad Phase 3 program. A couple of key takeaway messages. One, our Phase 3 program includes population for both primary and secondary prevention. We think there will be a growing opportunity for patients that are at high risk in primary prevention such as diabetics with a high risk equivalent of cardiovascular disease. And to the best of our knowledge, we had only seen the outcome trial program that includes primary prevention.

Number two, we structured it in two different trials. One addressing individuals that cannot get down to 100 or below, and that allows is to show most likely a substantial risk reduction in cardiovascular disease since this is the segment where we expect a strong correlation between lowering cholesterol and lowering risk for CV events. The second trial really focusing on bringing patients in the 70 to 100 segment with high risk, both primary and secondary prevention patients, down really low in cholesterol. And we think that will allow us to open up unmet need in that area further by generating data.

I should say that the dose regiment that we developed in Phase 2b is really crucial for this study design, and we developed the dosing regimens that allows us to start with a high dose and get immediately down patients to low levels. And only if necessary do a dose titration with lower dose of bococizumab. We do think bococizumab is one of the most potent antibodies that showed really pronounced lowering of cholesterol. It performs well in every two weeks, and we have said earlier that through a partnership with Halozyme, we have a longer lifecycle management plan exploration of once a month after first ensuring generating good data in the current regimen.

IAN READ: That Halozyme is unique to us, I think we have exclusivity on that technology.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Correct. Thanks, Ian.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. Good answer.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, and thank you, everybody, this morning, for your time.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Thanks for your time, everybody. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's Pfizer's third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. This does conclude the call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141030eaas002xm
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,540 words
   PD
29 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's second quarter 2014 performance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, General Counsel. Slides that will be presented on the call can be viewed at Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2014, which is located in the investor presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussion during the call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2013 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Discussion during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today.

We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a question and answer session. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck, and thank you all for joining our call this morning. I'll begin with some brief comments from the quarter. Overall, we saw good performance and strong operational growth in a number of areas, including Lyrica, in developed markets, Prevnar, primarily in the US and emerging markets, and Celebrex worldwide.

Our recently launched brands are making solid gains. Eliquis grew sequentially 50% quarter on quarter on a global basis, while Xeljanz posted sequential quarter growth in excess of 30%, primarily in the US. With the continuation of this momentum, these products are on a trajectory to become meaningful contributors to our underlying business in the coming quarters. We also saw the continued uptake of Xalkori and Inlyta globally.

Revenues in our consumer business increased 15% operationally, primarily due to the recent launch of Nexium 24HR in the US in late May. We also saw strong Company-wide performance within the emerging markets. Revenue increased 11% operationally compared to the year-ago quarter, driven by growth in China, Venezuela, Argentina and Brazil. Despite a somewhat slower start to the year, each of our businesses is performing well in the face of ongoing product losses of exclusivity within our innovative businesses and continued pricing pressures and changing market dynamics affecting our established business. I would also point out the negative impact of LOEs and the revenue loss resulting from the expiration of some copromoted revenues was $1.7 billion for the first six months. This impact masks the Company-wide operational revenue growth from all other products during the first half of the year, which was 3% overall.

In evaluating our performance now that we've been operating in our new commercial model since the beginning of the year, I believe the structure is providing greater transparency into the operations of each business and on a daily basis, it enables decision-making that better optimizes the performance and portfolio of each of our segments. Furthermore, we remain encouraged by key developments that demonstrate our pipeline momentum.

Of particular note, we expect to complete the submission of the palbociclib new drug application to the FDA in August. The submission is based on the final results of Paloma 1, a randomized Phase 2 trial comparing the combination of palbociclib plus letrozole versus letrozole alone as the first line treatment for postmenopausal women with estrogen-positive HER2 negative advanced breast cancer. We will publicly communicate once we have completed our submission. Also of note, our Phase 3 palbociclib trials in advanced breast cancer, Paloma 2 and Paloma 3, are progressing and both trials have completed recruitment of new patients. In addition, a number of Phase 3 studies where we are collaborating with leading international breast cancer investigators are open and enrolling patients with both advanced and early breast cancer. And we have active exploration underway in multiple Phase 1/2 studies in non-breast indications.

Given the outbreaks of meningitis B disease on several US college campuses in 2013, we worked closely with the FDA to submit our biologics license application for accelerated approval of our meningitis B vaccine for the prevention of invasive meningococcal disease in adolescent young adults. We look forward to the meeting that has just been scheduled to take place on August 13 by the CDC's advisory committee on immunization practices, ACIP, to discuss and vote on a potentially expanded recommendation for Prevnar 13 use in adults.

We have a comprehensive Xeljanz program that is progressing with Phase 3 studies underway in UC and psoriatic arthritis and Phase 2 studies in psoriasis for topical use, Crohn's disease and ankylosing spondylitis. We continue to enroll patients in Phase 3 trials of bococizumab for cholesterol-lowering in high risk individuals, ertugliflozin for the treatment of diabetes, and later this year, we expect to begin enrolling patients for rivipansel for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in individuals with sickle cell anemia.

As we enter the second half of this year, our strategy, focus and priorities remain unchanged, supported by the steady performance of each of our commercial segments. When it comes to business development, we will continue to evaluate all opportunities regardless of the size through the lens of value creation for our shareholders and enhancing the competitiveness of our businesses.

Our most recent announced acquisitions and collaborations are examples of enablers of our strategy. We expect InnoPharma will meaningfully increase the size of our sterile injectables business through their existing and outlicensed portfolio of sterile injectables, as well as in the medium and longer term for the potential of their pipeline. And if we see promising results as we move forward with the Cellectis collaboration to develop immuno therapies against select targets in oncology, we believe it has the potential for changing the way cancer is treated.

In summary, for the remainder of this year, we'll be focused on executing our plans and taking the actions that will further strengthen and globally position us to be market-leading in each of our business segments. We remain committed to advancing innovative new therapies on behalf of new patients we serve, prudently managing and deploying capital to provide the greatest value for our shareholders and creating a culture within the organization where colleagues can think creatively, take prudent risk and operate with an entrepreneurial mindset. I will now turn it over to Frank to take you through the financial details of the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, EVP & CFO, BUSINESS OPERATIONS, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts we are reviewing today are included in our webcast. As a reminder, because of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 23, 2013, the financial results of the animal health business and the gain associated with its full disposition are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for the second quarter and first six months of 2013. Now, let's move on to the financials.

Second quarter 2014 revenues of approximately $12.8 billion decreased 2% year over year, reflecting a 1% negative impact from foreign exchange and operational decline of approximately 1%, driven mainly by the expiration on October 31, 2013 of the copromotion term for Enbrel in the US and Canada, the ongoing terminations and expirations of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries, the loss of exclusivity and subsequent multi source generic competition for Detrol LA in the US, and other product losses of exclusivity in various markets. These are partially offset by the strong operational growth in developed markets of Lyrica, Nexium 24HR in the US, Prevnar, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Celebrex, Xalkori and Inlyta and by strong operational growth of 11% in emerging markets. In addition, reported revenues included $71 million from transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis. I want to point out LOEs and declining alliance revenues had a negative impact of approximately $840 million during the quarter.

Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.58 increased 4%, primarily due to fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding due to ongoing share repurchases and the impact of the Zoetis exchange offer, which were partially offset by a 4% aggregate operational increase in adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A, adjusted R&D expenses resulting from an unfavorable shift in product mix and recently initiated Phase 3 programs for bococizumab, ertugliflozin, palbociclib and the meningitis B vaccine and for the studies of Xeljanz and certain other products and potential new indications. However, adjusted SI&A expenses decreased because of continued benefits from cost reduction and productivity initiatives.

Reported diluted EPS of $0.45 compared with $1.98 in the year-ago quarter was primarily due to the non-recurrence in the second quarter 2014 of income from discontinued operations in the year-ago quarter, attributable to the animal health business, including the gain associated with its disposition and the income in the year-ago quarter from a litigation settlement for patent infringement damages and to a lesser extent, the LOEs and the expiration of the copromotion term for certain products, all of which were partially offset by lower acquisition-related costs, purchase accounting adjustments and asset impairment charges, a lower effective tax rate due to the resolution in the second quarter of 2014 of certain prior year tax positions with various foreign tax authorities, a favorable change in jurisdictional mix of earnings, and the non-recurrence of the unfavorable impact of the tax rate associated with the aforementioned patent litigation settlement income, and finally, fewer shares outstanding.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter revenues by 1%, or $87 million, and had a net positive impact of $18 million on the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted R&D expenses. Consequently, foreign exchange negatively impacted adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01 compared with the year-ago quarter.

Now, moving on to the financial highlights of our businesses. The second quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals revenues decreased 5% operationally year-over-year due to the previously mentioned expiration of the copromotion term for Enbrel in the US and Canada, and the loss of exclusivity for Lyrica in Canada in February of 2013. And the expiration of the copromotion term for Enbrel and the LOEs of certain products resulted in an operational decline of $459 million. However, all other GIP revenues grew 9% operationally, driven by strong growth from Lyrica, primarily in the US and Japan, as well as the performance of recently launched products, including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz primarily in the US.

Income before taxes declined 12% operationally due to the decrease in revenues, a 5% operational increase in cost of sales, or a 1.2% percentage point increase as a percentage of revenues. I want to point out here that the loss of Enbrel alliance revenues in the second quarter 2014 negatively impacted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues by 1.5 percentage points operationally. A 13% operational increase in SI&A expenses from increased investment in new products and inline brands such as Lyrica and Viagra, as well as a 41% operational increase in R&D expenses due to recently initiated Phase 3 programs for bococizumab, ertugliflozin and additional Xeljanz indications.

In the second quarter, revenues from our Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business grew 15% operationally year-over-year, due to the strong operational growth of Prevnar 13 in the US and in emerging markets, the launch of Nexium 24HR in the US in late May 2014, and the continued strong uptake of Xalkori and Inlyta globally. Income before taxes increased 10% operationally due to increased revenues, which were partially offset by a 23% operational increase in cost of sales, driven by increased sales volumes in unfavorable change in product mix, an 18% operational increase in SI&A expenses associated with the launch of Nexium 24HR and the pre launch marketing expenses for the meningitis B vaccine palbociclib and the 16% increase in R&D expenses supporting the acceleration of the meningitis B vaccine and palbociclib development programs.

The second quarter Global Established Pharmaceuticals revenues decreased 5% operationally year-over-year due to the loss of exclusivity and subsequent launch of multi source generic competition for Detrol LA in the US in January of 2014, Viagra in most European markets in June of 2013 and Aricept in Canada in December of 2013, as well as the ongoing termination of the copromotion agreement for Spiriva in most countries, including the US in April, and ongoing expiration in certain other countries. These were partially offset by the strong operational performance of Celebrex in most major markets, Lyrica in Europe and Lipitor primarily in China. The LOEs of certain products, the loss of alliance revenue for Aricept and Spiriva and Lipitor in developed markets negatively impacted gift revenues by $395 million operationally. However, all other GEP revenues grew 1% operationally. Income before taxes declined 4% operationally due to the decrease in revenues, which partially offset by the aggregate decrease, cost of sales, SI&A and R&D expenses, which included increased spending on biosimilar development programs.

Now, moving on to our 2014 financial guidance, we have updated several components of our adjusted guidance and reaffirmed our 2014 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range. Because of the anticipated negative impact from the expected multi source generic competition for Celebrex in the US in December of 2014, we now expect revenues to be in the range of $48.7 billion to $50.7 billion versus $49.2 billion to $51.2 billion. This range absorbs the negative impact of approximately $3.4 billion due to declining alliance revenues and expected product losses of exclusivity. In addition, we are decreasing our adjusted SI&A expense range due to an expected reduction in promotional spending for Celebrex in second half of 2014 and now expect adjusted SI&A to be in the range of $13.3 billion to $14.3 billion compared with $13.5 billion to $14.5 billion previously.

To reflect the planned $80 million upfront payment to Cellectis for our global strategic collaboration and anticipated increased expenses for the acceleration of certain late stage clinical programs, including palbociclib and bococizumab, among others, we now expect R&D expenses to be in the range of $6.7 billion to $7.2 billion versus $6.4 billion to $6.9 billion previously. We now expect approximately $200 million of other income versus approximately $100 million of deductions because of lower expected net income expense for the remainder of 2014 and gains realized during the first half of 2014, mainly on sales of product rights and investments and equity securities. We expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.47 to $1.62 due to charges related to certain legal matters, primarily related to Neurontin incurred during the first quarter 2014. And we are reaffirming on 2014 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range of $2.20 to $2.30, which absorbs approximately $0.05 per share for anticipated negative impact related to Celebrex and $0.01 related to the planned upfront payment for the Cellectis collaboration.

Now, moving on to key take-aways, we recorded solid second quarter 2014 results. We reaffirmed our adjusted diluted EPS range, which absorbs an approximately $0.05 anticipated negative impact related to Celebrex and $0.01 related to Cellectis. We achieved several key R&D milestones, including the initiation of a rolling submission in June 2014 of an NDA seeking approval for palbociclib, which we expect to complete this August. In June, we submitted a biologics license application to the FDA for our meningitis B vaccine candidate, and we discussed with the ACIP at its June meeting a potential expanded recommendation for Prevnar 13 use with adults. We expect the ACIP's decision on August 13.

We announced several business development opportunities to further strengthen our position in key strategic areas, and we continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. To date, in 2014 we have repurchased $2.9 billion, or approximately 95.1 million shares, and we continue to expect to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock this year. These repurchases and planned repurchases for the remainder of the year are expected to reduce total shares outstanding year-over-year by a total of approximately 100 million shares by the end of 2014, after considering actual and projected dilution related to employee compensation programs. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2014 and beyond. Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. Operator, at this point, can we please poll for questions?

Questions and Answers

CHUCK TRIANO: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Just two here. The first one, and I'm sure this is the first time you've been asked this recently, but on business development, how are you thinking about BD at this point? Given the valuation resets and type line recovery that's occurred within this space, is it more challenging to find larger deals that both advance the Pfizer story and give your investors the type of returns they are looking for?

And the second question, for the past year or so, up until the Astra approach then the focus on the potential breakup of Pfizer based on your new corporate structure you're creating coupled with your pipeline recovery, can you update us your thoughts on that potential split of Pfizer over time? Has your view of a breakup making potential sense changed at all? And I guess, do you still see merits in the idea of splitting the Company into maybe two over time? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you for the questions, Chris. On BD, BD is not a strategy, it enables strategies. We continue to aggressively look at all types of BD regardless of size that we believe would add value to shareholders. So, that's our stance on BD.

And on the -- on this much-discussed potential breakup, we -- as before, we are managing the business in two segments, broadly speaking. One being innovative and the other being established. And in the innovative, we have sub businesses like oncology and a consumer and vaccines that are very distinct from other parts of the innovative business. So, we're giving you transparency on those segments, and we're collecting both P&L and balance sheet information to give us optionality. What we do eventually will really depend upon how those businesses perform, how the -- how our shareholders value those businesses.

And we will look at that after an appropriate period of time of both collecting the data we need for optionality and the performance in the marketplace. Thank you. Frank, do you want to add anything?

FRANK D'AMELIO: The only thing I would add Chris, to punctuate what Ian said is, and I think for the time being and for the near future, the most important thing those businesses can do is execute with excellence. So will that operational performance and then that will create all kinds of options and choices for us in the future.

IAN READ: So, fundamentally, I see BD as adding to what I see as a strong hand we have with our core strategies.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian and Frank. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking the question. Couple here. Again, I'm sure you've gotten some of these before as well. But one around the increased rhetoric in Washington around inversions. Would that impact, or is it impacting any way the way you look at doing an inversion-based deal in the future?

And then the second one, just on the pipeline around Palbo, I think there's still a lot of questions. You said obviously you're going to file next month, a lot of questions around with what the FDA is going to do and really, why would the FDA approve it on an expedited basis when you'll be getting full Phase 3 data just a few months later? And so if you can give us any updates there around discussions you've had with the FDA and why the need to, again, just maybe take a little bit more of a risk to get this out just a few months ahead of the full data session. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thanks for the question, Vamil. In Washington, we remain committed to discussing and advocating for fundamental tax reform and that will play out with the political parties, we suspect, over the next coming years. And it's really difficult to comment more than that, other than we do believe the tax system is inherently at a -- puts American companies at a disadvantage, and we would like to see the tax system reformed. On palbo, I think there is some confusion as to when we get the final Phase 3 data, but I'll ask Albert to comment on the palbo submission.

ALBERT BOURLA, GROUP PRESIDENT OF VACCINES, ONCOLOGY AND CONSUMER, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Ian, and thank you, Vamil, for the question. As you are aware, our submission is based on the final results for our Phase 2 trial, and this has happened after conversations with FDA. I wouldn't -- I don't want to speculate what FDA will request as we go through the review process, but I can tell you that until now, they have not placed any conditions on us related to the Phase 3 trial results. As Ian alluded, the Phase 3 has completed recruitment, and it is expected to come to final completion at the end in December of 2015, and the final report will be available in 2016.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Albert. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thanks. Just going back to M&A, and I know you'll probably struggle to answer this question, but in your prepared remarks, you said you would continue to evaluate all opportunities regardless of size. My question is whether it's reasonable to expect that Pfizer could find strategically attractive targets that are big enough, such as tax inversion could be one of the benefits. So, the operative here for me would be strategically attractive because I can think of other theoretical inversion targets, but I'm not sure I see the strategic value on those. So, I would like to get your opinion on that. And then on palbociclib in Europe, do you expect that Paloma 1 will be adequate for submission, or will regulatory authorities likely require at least interim Phase 3 results before approving like they did with Xalkori?

IAN READ: Albert, why don't you take the palbo question, and I'll come back to M&A?

ALBERT BOURLA: As you can expect, we have begun discussions with the European and other regulatory health authorities, and those -- for palbociclib, and those discussions include discussions from the clinical data. Also, we have presented to them our development program and we have entered the discussions about the potential regulatory path forward. But it is too early to disclose at this stage our regulatory strategy for these regions.

IAN READ: Thank you. And Tim, on M&A, we look and continue to look at a very wide spectrum of M&A transactions. We have substantial financial ability and balance sheet, and tax inversion is one part of the value equation. When we were looking at AZ, we looked at both their pipeline, their synergies and the tax inversion. So, we will continue to look very broadly at deploying our capital in a way that makes sense for shareholder return.

CHUCK TRIANO: Moving on to the next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. I know we're all kind of dancing around the same issue, Ian. But on the assumption that AstraZeneca does not materialize, is there actually a plan B in place? What we've seen since then is a small acquisition in old pharma. Is that the kind of deals that we should anticipate going forward? Or is there still a plan in place to achieve a lower tax rate to enhance the pipeline?

And then, I don't know if Mikael Dolsten is on the call, but just a question on business development, analyzing, outlicensing activity. We've seen recently a couple of high profile outlicensing deals, tremelimumab to AstraZeneca, neratinib to Puma and regrettably, those look like very unfortunate decisions. And just Ian, are you looking internally? Are you pleased with the team that you have in place who are charged with making these critical decisions? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you. So, on the BD, we looked at both those assets you mentioned early on in their lifecycle, and we looked at the opportunities with inside our portfolio and took the decision, given that they were lower -- we believe lower value assets with what we knew about those assets at the time to outlicense them. In the case of the Puma asset that they acquired, neratinib, we have -- we outlicensed this -- or we looked at almost 10 companies, most of them major pharmaceutical companies, and the only company that was interested in its development was Puma. And as such, we were pleased with the outlicensing agreement we struck with them and the royalty rate. I have not seen the data, nor has Pfizer seen the data, that may or may not indicate that the product has value. And we will be in discussions with Puma with our legal rights as to that data and the consequences of that data.

On the tremelimumab, it was a decision to outlicense to AZ, and I'm not aware of any data that would make me believe that we made a mistake, given the fact we had other products that we were developing of higher productivity value. Now, as we go to your plan B, my comment would be our plan A is our plan to continue to develop our innovative pipeline to restore the vigor in our pipeline. We're making progress with mid and late stage pipelines, including Prevnar adult, palbociclib, bococizumab, ertugliflozin, mening B and Xeljanz following indications. We're continuing to grow on newly launched brands, such as Eliquis, Xeljanz, Xalkori, Inlyta, Lyrica and Enbrel, and we are focusing on the emerging markets.

So, plan A is to continue with the strategy that we've always articulated, which is to reinvigorate our innovative core, make our R&D productive and make smart and shareholder-friendly capital allocation decisions. Any BD that we do will be looked at for the view of accelerating those strategies and improving returns to shareholders. And the deals like InnoPharma and Cellectis are deals that are opportunistic and add on and we think build and help the underlying BUs, but certainly are not representative of the total fire power of corporate strategy of Pfizer. Frank, do you want to add anything on that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: No.

JAMI RUBIN: Okay. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from John Boris from SunTrust Robinson.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. First question for Frank, in 2013 and for the front half of 2014, you returned a significant amount of cash through share repurchases and through dividends in both of those years. Can you just remind us what the total amount that you returned and how much cash did you have to bring back offshore to be able to fund your share repurchase and your dividend from offshore?

Second question for Ian, on large scale versus tuck-in-type acquisitions, if you look at your US operation, which is traditionally the most profitable operation as a major pharma, it seems with ongoing losses of exclusivity and losses of alliance revenue, that that operation seems to be under a fair amount of pressure. Do you have some pipeline assets that you're successfully launching through there. But is the scale of what you're launching large enough to be able to offset some of those pressures that you have from continued losses of exclusivity, losses of alliance revenue? And then on your established products business, traditionally you've had a lot of success bringing in injectable assets into that business. But on a global basis, is it of scale where you have the regulatory capabilities needed to be able to successfully launch other types of assets on a global basis through that strategically? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Frank, do you want to take the first question?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So, John, just in terms of running the numbers, last year, we returned $23 billion to our shareholders between share buybacks and dividends. The buyback piece of that was $16.3 billion. This year, the buyback piece year to date is $2.9 billion. If you look at our dividend on an annual basis, we've got on average, call it 6.4 billion, 6.5 billion shares at $1.04 dividend. Call that 6.5 to 7 billion. For midyear, a piece of that is another $3 billion, $3.5 billion.

In terms of -- and then if you look -- by the way, just in terms of numbers, if you look over the last three years, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we returned about $53 billion to our shareholders in terms of buybacks and dividends. In terms of a major way we have funded that has been through some of our unlocking value activity. So, sale of Capsugel, the sale of Nutrition and the exchange for Zoetis. Those are three of the ways we've done that, and obviously through very effective and efficient tax planning.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. On your question about scale of the innovative business, obviously your question goes to the strategic issue we've been dealing with as we try and take care of the LOEs while trying to minimize revenue decreases while growing our EPS. And I think we've been doing a good job of doing that while we manage the sort of onslaught of LOEs with EPS growth. It comes down to the question of the growth of Lyrica, the growth of Eliquis, the growth of Xeljans, the adult vaccine, the mening B, the Xeljanz follow-ons. What is the extent of growth we can get from that while we continue and, of course, the palbociclib and when it launches. That, compared to the LOEs, plus the growth we can get out of emerging markets.

So, it's a very good question, we feel, that our strategy is the right one. We will continue to be challenged on revenue growth but we see that we can manage through this cycle through those products I've just mentioned, and behind that we see a wave of very exciting products coming as we get through the LOEs. On EP, I would ask John to comment.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Okay. So, thanks for the question, John, about sterile injectables. I think maybe the first point to make is we actually have a very strong sterile injectable business globally, not only in the US. But one of the features of the market overall is actually, it's pretty concentrated. And there are about five markets globally that probably represent about 80% of the total profit pool in sterile injectables. The US is obviously one of those markets. The other markets would include China, Japan, France and Italy. So, it's actually more concentrated than you would think.

And I think the answer to your question is, we actually feel very confident about the underlying capabilities that we have, particularly in regulatory affairs, to be able to bring to market products in that portfolio, either products that we're developing organically or hopefully in the future, pending completion of the acquisition of InnoPharma, products that will come out of the pipeline of that company.

IAN READ: I would add, John, our established products, our international presence is probably the strongest of any American company and certainly on par with any of the Europeans. We have great strength broadly speaking in emerging markets with a number one multinational in China. I'm very confident we have the talent, the distribution, and the know-how to fully leverage our products globally. Thank you for the question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. I have two strategic questions and then one cost question. So, on the first two, number one, I was just wondering if you could provide feedback that you received on the final offer of GBP55 for AstraZeneca that you received from major investors? And second, are you considering other major tax redomiciling transactions? And then with respect to net costs, obviously, Pfizer continues to cut costs, but also needs to reinvest. So, beyond 2014, Frank, should we think about Pfizer being able to reduce net costs in terms of selling and general and administrative and R&D? Or at the end of this year will you be at the point of essentially looking at flattish costs or rising costs going forward? Thank you.

IAN READ: So, on AZ, you understand I can't make any forward-looking statements on AZ. I would like to put in context of, I believe information that's already been reported. We were faced with the AZ management with an indication that they would not engage with us in any meaningful way unless we had an opening offer of approximately GBP59. Faced with that, we made what we thought was a full and final offer of GBP55 that fully valued the company and gave appropriate sharing of synergies to the appropriate shareholders. We have, in general, received good feedback from our shareholders that we demonstrated appropriate capital discipline.

Are we looking at additional or other BD deals? Absolutely. And would a tax inversion be part of that value? Just as it was with AZ, it will be part of the value that we look at. But we also look for a strengthening parts of our businesses as well as we do that. Fundamentally, what we look for is, will any BD create long-term value for our shareholders, and that's the lens we look at it through, not necessarily through financial or strategic. But overall, is it value creating against our cost of capital? Frank, on our net cost?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. Dave, in terms of timing, when we close out the year, we're on the end of January, early February call of 2015, we'll close out Q4, and then I'll give specific guidance by line item for 2015, so you'll get the specific numbers then. But I'll comment -- I'll answer your question now in maybe macro context. What I've said this year, last few quarters is, I think we've entered the late innings on cost reduction. We've got some pressure on R&D as we've initiated some late stage development programs that we've alluded to on the call. We've had some pressure on SI&A and due to launch costs for new products. It's a good problem to have.

That said, in terms of managing our cost and expense structure, our expectation is that we will continuously improve as we go forward. And there are still opportunities to improve our cost structure, and we'll capitalize on those opportunities, and we'll drop as much of that to the bottom line as we can. It will be a balance between cost/benefit analysis in how we deploy our capital.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Colin Bristow from Bank of America.

COLIN BRISTOW, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. A few product questions, if I may. On Xeljanz, can you just give us a little more color on the performance in the quarter? And then looking forward, where are you in terms of getting the 10-milligram dose approved in RA. Given you intend to follow the 5-milligram and 10-milligram doses in psoriasis, what gives you confidence the FDA will feel comfortable with a 10-milligram dose in this setting? And then on the once-daily formulation, what are the timelines associated with this? And then finally on ertugliflozin, how do you see yourself competing, given it looks like you'll be fourth to market and historically, third or fourth entrants in these types of commoditized markets have struggled to gain meaningful share? Thanks.

IAN READ: Geno, would you like to answer those questions, please.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Sure. So, let me start out with Xeljanz. So, we had a good quarter with Xeljanz, we grew by over 30% from the first quarter of this year. We think we've really hit an inflection point with the launch of the structured data that came out during the first quarter this year. So, we have some momentum and we're feeling good about the performance in the US. With regard to the 10-milligram in RA, we think that that's going to be -- that's going to take a while, it's going to take accumulation of additional safety data to satisfy the FDA, although we have 10-milligram registrations in other countries. So, we'll just see how that plays out.

With regard to psoriasis, we have a fairly large, comprehensive database, over 3,600 patients and four significant trials in psoriasis. The results that we saw across the 5-milligram and 10-milligram doses were consistent in those trials. It is obviously a different patient population with a different safety and efficacy profile overall. So, we're in the process now of assembling our dossier, and we'll file the dossier and have discussions with the agency on the appropriate benefit risk and the appropriate dosages for that indication.

With regard to the once a day, we're continuing to make really good progress with the once a day program. As you may know, we're not needing to do any additional clinical work. We're doing some pharmacology and PK work. So, we expect to be filing in the first half of 2015. And with regard to ertugliflozin, we have, again, a comprehensive program and partnership with Merck developing ertugliflozin as a single entity molecule or product and also in combination with Januvia and metformin. And we will have an overall strategy that involves both the single entity and combination products to make our way into that marketplace.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno. Of course, as you say, fourth in, but it depends upon the quality of the clinical trial and the results we get, and we believe that it is potentially a best in class molecule. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Marc Goodman from UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Geno, I was wondering if you could also give us an update on Xalkori and Inlyta, how those products are doing in the trends and how much more you think we can get from those. Second question is an update on tanezumab and third, China, maybe you could talk about some of the trends in China. Are we still gaining market share over there? Are we adding sales reps, are we moving into new cities and how the Hisun JV has worked out. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mark. Great questions. So, Albert in fact will, has Oncology under his responsibility. He will answer the Xalkori and Inlyta questions, and then we'll go to Mikael for tanezumab. And then perhaps in general, perhaps John could answer the China question.

ALBERT BOURLA: Mark, Inlyta, overall, very pleased with the performance of Inlyta that was driven by very strong uptake in key new regions. In the quarter, we've had $101 million of sales, that was up 44% operationally from last year. Very similar sentiment for Xalkori. We reported revenues of $108 million for the quarter, that was up 59.

Overall, the growth is driven as a result of -- we have increased testing for the ALK 78%. I remind you that when we launched the product, 11%, so very strong update. And second reason is because we have extended duration of therapy. More patients are treated for longer, so very strong performance for both. We expect to see this growth continue. Geno?

GENO GERMANO: No, Mikael on tanezumab.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Yes, so on tanezumab, and thank you for your interest in that asset. And as you may remember, tanezumab delivered some very strong efficacy seen early in the previous studies and represent potentially one of the few classes of new mechanisms that are recently proving substantial clinical benefit. And we have been working with FDA in some very good constructive dialogues on what needs to be demonstrated in preclinical toxicology in order to submit a new package that could open up the potential for reinitiating large studies. This has been focused on preclinical studies on the peripheral nervous system. And we have done some in-depth studies that continue to accumulate. But so far, I'm encouraged about what we have learned about the drug and the mechanics, and we have stated that we will plan potentially to resubmit the data if we will continue to come together in a positive way no later than first part of 2015.

IAN READ: Thank you. John, China? Overall, perhaps Frank, who's also got some number. We'll see if we do a tag team there.

JOHN YOUNG: All right. Thanks for the question, Mark. So, I think we're obviously very pleased with the performance of China this quarter. Overall, the total by a pharmaceutical business in China showed operational growth of 27%.

The GEP business within that group, 37% in the quarter. And you can see the product performances when you go to the schedules in the earnings release. Pretty much across the board, what we've seen is strong volume growth, driven by good operational performance in the marketplace. I think maybe just a comment on, overall, the strategy in China for our business, which clearly is very important to us. Overall, our strategy has a number of areas of focus. We're very focused on driving their legacy brands in China. Lipitor is probably a standout product for us, and we see a great fit with the priorities of the Chinese government to really better treat and manage patients with cardiovascular disease on a portfolio of Lipitor and Norvasc is a great fit in that regard.

You mentioned Hisun, and certainly we've had a strategy in China for a number of years to really find ways of participating in the profitable segments of the fast-growing generic market. And our partnership with Hisun is really a great example of that. Overall, generic products account for around about 75% of the domestic market in China. And really, our partnership with Hisun places us extremely well to be able to maximize our contribution there with products that are a great fit with, again, the needs of the healthcare system.

Thirdly, clearly, we are looking to bring innovative products to market in the GIP and VOC businesses in China are looking to maximize the performance of innovative products in the market, as well as bring new products to market. And overarching all of that, the last thing I would say is we are clearly looking to find ways of collaborating very constructively with the Chinese government and with their goals for the development of the pharmaceutical industry capability in China. We've had domestic manufacturing capacity in China for many years. And we're also very engaged with working with the Ministry of Health to partner with them to better screen patients for cardiovascular disease in China as well. All of those things together really can be hopefully a flavor of what is driving the performance in China this quarter.

IAN READ: Thank you, John.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then Mark, I'll just run a few other numbers in and then I'll answer your question about reps. John mentioned 27% operational growth for the biopharmaceutical business. Total Company for the quarter grew 24% operationally. And then John mentioned Lipitor and Norvasc. Lipitor in China grew 55% operationally quarter over quarter, Norvasc grew 30% quarter over quarter. Just some really, really strong performance. And we have added a significant amount of reps in China in the first half of the year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Next question from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks very much. I have three questions. The first one on palbociclib, can you update us on the potential interim look in Paloma 2? The second question is really for Frank. Frank, maybe you can confirm for us, as we look at the year-over-year comparisons, we do see the 2013 numbers broken out. But can you just confirm that this is not fully audited information that would include the balance sheet? Basically, my question is, is historically you've said that there won't be a look back at 2013 that would basically facilitate a split occurring sooner. But as I look at that data, if it were fully audited, it would seem like that might be a possibility.

Then my last question for Ian, would you ever consider a sale of the innovative businesses, should you be approached by another company/ Basically a willingness, if it made sense for shareholders in terms of the value, that might be provided to Pfizer in an eventual split? Thanks so much.

IAN READ: Thank you, Seamus. Palbociclib interim?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, there is an interim review built into the design of our Phase 3 trial, the Paloma 2. But the timing of that review is event driven. We cannot speculate when that review will exactly take place. As I said before, the primary completion of the study is expected at the end of 2015, so the final report is expected in 2016. Again, it's event driven, so the actual dates may vary a bit.

IAN READ: Thank you. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Seamus, the way I think about this is no change from what I've said previously, which is it's a public transaction. If we were to decide to do something from a separation perspective in the future, it would be three years of audited financials and that -- with year one being 2014. So, it would be prospectively three years of audited financials. No change from what I've said previously.

JOHN YOUNG: On your last question, Seamus, I see myself and the management team, and I'm sure the board sees themselves as custodians of shareholder value. And so we would have to evaluate any proposal under its merit and whether we believe it produces long-term superior returns to shareholders.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I've got three for you. First off on Prevnar 13, would you like to frame the opportunity for us again, if you would, to receive a positive recommendation from the ACIP in August, and is that contained within your guidance for this year? Secondly, could you just comment around your strategic thoughts on your consumer business? Given some of the recent consolidations in the industry, does this asset still make most sense within the Pfizer structure? And then lastly, I wonder if you could give us an up-to-date overview of your biosimilar programs and potential timelines for any key assets? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay, on the consumer business, we see a great store of value. We have an active, both with quiet assets in that business. We've just launched Nexium 24HR. We have an active rx-to-OTC strategy, so we see it as a business that we want to be in. On Prevnar 13 adult, I'll ask Albert to give you some idea of the opportunity. The early approval is included in this year's overall guidance.

FRANK Dï¿½MELIO: No major change.

IAN READ: No major change. Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, I will tell you, this is a great opportunity, of course, globally, not only in US. Because there is a very large adult target population and there is a significant unmet need over there. There are 300 million adults are greater than 65 years in the world and half of that, it is in US and Japan. 3.6 million, 3.7 million only US adults are turning 65 each year. And also depending upon ACIP recommendation, we do believe that there could be an additional catch-up opportunity for adults greater than 65 that have already received the old generation vaccine. So, we expect Prevnar 13 to be a leading adult vaccination, given the strength of our data.

IAN READ: Thank you. And biosimilars, John?

JOHN YOUNG: Okay. Thanks again for the question, Jeff. So, essentially we have five monoclonals in development. All of those products we expect to come to market in the 2017, 2018 timeframe after the loss of exclusivity of the basic patents of those molecules.

Just to give you a rundown, we have trastuzumab, which is a biosimilar for Herceptin, that is already in Phase 3, that a Phase 3 was initiated earlier on this year. We have a biosimilar rituximab. That achieved our proof of concept in the first half of this year, and we expect to initiate Phase 3 in the second half of 2014. We have biosimilar infliximab. Phase 1 was completed -- we expect to complete at the end of this year and the next milestone there would, again, be the initiation of Phase 3 in the second half of this year. We have biosimilar adalimumab. Phase 1 has been initiated, and the next milestone would be proof of concept readout from those Phase 1 studies in mid this year. And then we have biosimilar bevacizumab. That is in preclinical, and the next milestone for that program would be the initiation of Phase 1 studies again this year.

IAN READ: Thank you, John.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Thank you for taking the question. On palbo, when can we expect updated survival data from Paloma 1? And a higher level R&D question, is there an opportunity for additional cost savings in your R&D structure? We've seen some of your peers simplify their structure and achieve significant savings without seemingly compromising productivity. Is that option for Pfizer? Thank you.

IAN READ: Would you like to do palbo please, Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, on the overall survival data, we had an initial assessment, but it was done when we had only 37% of the total events. There is a follow-up analysis, but it is the scheduled following the accrual of additional events. But the time can take really long because the average -- the medium overall survival of this population, it is approximately four years. I really think that the final analysis likely will take long. Just a reminder though here, that the primary end point of the study was the progression-free survival. The overall survival was one of the secondary end points. And also, historically, agents from the market for (inaudible) have been approved, all with PFF data as the primary end point.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert. So, on our R&D question, we feel that post the acquisition of Wyeth, we were very prudent in the way we dimensioned our R&D spend, I believe taking the combined spend of some is 11 --

FRANK D'AMELIO: $11 billion total.

IAN READ: $11 billion down to $6.5 billion, $6.7 billion. I really can't comment on what our competitors have been doing, but certainly for a few years now, we have accelerated the refining of how much we spend in research, where we spend it. We have really good tools internally to look at the productivity by asset, and we invest behind strong signals with lots of quality gates. And we have separated out the decision between proof of concept and a decision to move forward into Phase 3 between the research and the commercial business. So, we've got strong internal drivers for a return on capital.

Will we continue to look at the best ways to invest in research? Of course. We've got a CTI initiative where we have major relationships with some 20 universities in the US and I believe outside of the US, at least one where we attempt to look to be efficient in the way we discover mechanisms of action. And of course, this is a major expense which we are constantly monitoring to make sure it's efficient. When you have great products like we do and we're bringing them forward into the development of Phase 3, clearly there is pressure on the development costs for large trial such as with bococizumab or with palbociclib or with mening B or with the staph aureus vaccine. Clearly, there are pressures on our Phase 3 spend, but we will continue to manage our overall R&D spend within our overall guidance and overall drive to continue to grow EPS. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Andrew Baum from Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi. Couple of questions, please. First, we've obviously seen increased pressure by PBMs together with lesser price disciplines from the pharma industry translating into negative pricing dynamics (inaudible) spaces. I would be interested in your view on the evolution of that into the specialty pharma segment. And then leading on from it, and I appreciate it's a different situation, but GSK recently announced the pricing for their GLP 1 at a 65% discount for the first in class. To what extent do you think aggressive pricing strategies like that may work for products where it is late to market?

I guess I'm thinking partly of Xeljanz. Maybe not now, but at one point does a pricing lever become a potential option for you? And then secondly, building an oncology company around one drug is not easy, particularly if you've never had a strong legacy oncology business, as I think is the case with Pfizer. To what extent do you think you can build an oncology company without the acquisition of external talents and additional products through an M&A structure? Thank you.

IAN READ: Well, undoubtedly the PBMs are doing what they constructed to do, is to try and aggregate volume and achieve price discounts. This has been going on in the US market for many years now and I think will continue to occur. It really depends on the value that you bring to the marketplace. And we are focused on that, and I think specialty products certainly normally, if you define them as having close to or cures or having dramatic impact on the outcome of disease or were disease modifying have huge value. And so I believe we'll continue to see attention in there. But value is rewarded and innovation is rewarded.

I really can't comment on GSK pricing and on how we price Xeljanz. We think it reflects the -- both the composition of the value to the patient, the value in the marketplace. And the most important thing in that market is, I think, is the efficacy and safety, and adoption is normally slow and driven by clinical data rather than pure pricing decisions. So, I would see pricing as being more for acute conditions or conditions where it's highly genericized and it's not so much a long-term serious disease. Geno, do you want to comment anything more on that?

GENO GERMANO: All that I would say is, as I'm sure you're aware, Andrew, the pricing, reimbursement process, particularly in the United States, is very complex, very fragmented. And we're dealing with not only prices, but discounting, rebating, step edits, tiering of formulary status. And so it's not as simple as saying the price should be higher or lower. It's really a strategic approach to the marketplace where you first and foremost have to build value for your product and then operate within the system that exists out there for maximum benefit. So, it's a day in and day out process. We think very strategically about how to price our products, how to discount our products, how to position our products on formularies, and I think we're going to continue to need to do that.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno. On oncology, I don't quite understand your comment about building it around one product. We have Xalkori in the market. We have Inlyta in the market and Bosulif in the marketplace, we have Sutent in the marketplace. We see palbo as another product coming to market, and we have a very in-depth Phase 2 oncology portfolio. Perhaps Mikael, do you want to just mention a little bit about how you see the oncology portfolio developing?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, thank you, Ian. On one hand, there is significant activities on expanding palbociclib into a variety of additional indications. And we have a handful of Phase 1, Phase 2 studies exploring various segments of lung cancer, including [genomic] defined with collaborators melanoma and also looking into other novel indications. We have very exciting smoothen inhibitor that we are broadly expanding into a variety of blood cancer in ongoing Phase 2 studies, including AML and myelodysplastic diseases. Our gamma secretase inhibitor shows a very interesting clinical profile distinct from what we have seen previously reported, and we're moving that into triple-negative breast cancers in immuno oncology As you know, we are collaborating with Merck on combining 41B BB with RPD 1, and that study will soon start. And early next year, we plan to bring into clinical studies 40 antibody followed by PD1.

During the later part of 2015, we'll have a significant onco immunology portfolio. And then, of course, we have Phase 1 ongoing with a full-on to cell core that shows really interesting profile. So, these was just a brief overview of some of the more interesting compounds. Building on what Ian said, we had breadth and depth intelligence and pipeline here.

IAN READ: Thank you for the question, Andrew.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, thanks for fitting me in. Maybe just go back to some questions in the first half of the Q&A, if you would tolerate that. Number one, maybe for Ian. Ian, speaking again about BD, could you perhaps, if possible, kind of prioritize therapeutic areas for us that you're interested in? I know -- I remember as recently as last summer, you had mentioned a few therapeutic areas you're most interested in. I was understanding what your priorities are now.

And then within that commentary, perhaps you could comment on strategically whether it would make sense to add, to -- whether it would make sense to add a significant generics component to your current business. And then a two-part question for Mikael, if I may. Mikael, could you update us on conversations you may have had with the regulators in the last several months around the PCSK9 class? I know Pfizer had spoken before about how you thought perhaps outcome struggles might be necessary prior to registration. I was just wondering what your current thoughts are. And then also, just summarize your CAR T-cell program that you recently inlicensed and how it differs from the programs that are a little bit ahead. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mark. Well, on BD, clearly, you want to BD where you have a potential for, not only organic growth, but synergy. You'd like to look at BD where you are already are strong in therapeutic areas, whether it's pain or oncology, or vaccines, just to mention a few. Anything that would utilize a primary care field for us would also be of interest to us. And adding a significant generic component, we would look at -- as you say, we look at all alternatives if it fits, it makes sense. If we think we can leverage it in the emerging markets, if we see that there is organic growth we could produce from it, we would certainly consider it. We're open to a wide range of business development activities that we believe that we can acquire at a good value for our shareholders. Mikael, on the question of PCSK9 and then I think the CAR technologies.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Mark, thank you for the interest in R&D programs. First, on PCSK9, we have a very large clinical program that, of course, includes LDL lowering and a significant outcome study involving both patients with less than 100 end patients, above 100 in cholesterol, and includes primary and secondary prevention. And we think actually it's the broadest program available which could, of course, bring a real insight to patients, physicians and to regulators. We think it's difficult to speculate if regulators will approve with LDL alone or wait for outcome studies. I think it depends how other studies that are reading out will deliver on the correlation between LDL lowering in a variety of CV patient groups to outcome. But I would underline that it's our view that what would really matter for uptake in their marketplace, my dialogues with Geno is very much that [patients] will look for outcome studies. And we think we have a premier outcome program, and we think it will deliver timely to competitors.

Concerning Cellectis, it's another Pfizer entry into the different modality of onco immunology. And I'm pleased to share with you that selective is -- the company that uses allogeneic cause which has the upside that it's not a complex procedure. But you could actually in a more industrialized process provide defined cellular treatments for thousands of patients. Cellectis has a unique [tailing] technology that allows them to modify and optimize those cells with a precision that made it very attractive for us to make a deal. And it's a significant collaboration, including more than 15 targets by Pfizer, and also we are supporting some targets that Cellectis will develop and we will have first rights to refusal for those few selective targets. And it includes a number of technologies such as giving the cells the best specificity, such as introducing signals that you allow it to eliminate the cells, making the cells resistant to certain standard of care that the patient may be receiving, as well as enhancing the CARs by possibly knocking out molecules such as the PD1, creating super CARs. So, I just gave you a flavor what I think we and selectives will uniquely do in the industry, and it really combines our in-depth ability in engineering of biological with selectives genome editing.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Mikael. And operator, if we could please take our last question now.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you very much. I have three questions. What is your level of confidence around the August 13 ACIP vote on Prevnar 13 in adults? Would you say, for instance, that you're highly confident in the vote? Secondly, regarding the neratinib comment earlier in the call, were you suggesting that you believe you have some legal right to gain greater participation than just the 13% royalty? And then thirdly, I would think you have kept a close eye on developments at AstraZeneca maybe involving evolution of the pipeline, and I'm wondering if you would share any observations. Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. AstraZeneca, I really don't want to make any comments. It's a very complicated legal situation with the UK Takeover Panel. I think it's best to remain silent. Sorry for that, Steve, but I'm sure you'll understand why. Perhaps, Doug, you could comment on neratinib.

DOUG LANKLER, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC.: Sure. As we indicated before, we did not see the data and believe we should have been able to see that data, and we're in the process of reviewing our contractual rights.

IAN READ: I think what we're basically talking about is that we were in negotiations with them, and we believe we have contractual rights to see data that we didn't see, so we're reviewing our options. And ACIP. Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, I don't want to speculate what the ACIP decisions will be, but I'm very optimistic. And I think that the policy options that they propose were both favorable, actually commercially neutral for us because either will be the only or it will be the first, a vax inverter will be administered. We think that will be a vote in this meeting, and we hope it will be positive.

IAN READ: Thank you. When you all have a chance to meet Albert, he's a very optimistic personality, so we appreciate that optimism (laughter).

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Albert. Thanks, everybody, for your attention this morning.

IAN READ: Thanks for your time, everyone.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude Pfizer's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140731ea7t002pa
  


 HD
 Q1  2014  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,121 words
   PD
5 May 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.

   TD
Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's first-quarter 2014 performance. I'm joined today in New York by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, General Counsel.

The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance, First Quarter 2014, located in the investor presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements, and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2013 annual report on Form 10-K, and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Discussions will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly-comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K, dated today.

We will now make prepared remarks, and then we will move to a question-and-answer session. As we expect there will be questions related to our proposal to AstraZeneca, and I would also note that there are limitations placed on our responses by the UK Takeover Code, and as such, there will be some questions we are not in a position to answer at this time.

With that, I'll you now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck and good morning, everyone.

During my remarks this morning, we will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter, and provide some observations on how our strategy is progressing. Before discussing the quarter, I'll begin with a few words about the proposal we made to AstraZeneca, to combine our two companies, and the rejection of our proposal by AstraZeneca's Board.

The proposal we announced publicly last Friday represented a substantial premium of 32% for AstraZeneca's shareholders, based on AstraZeneca's closing price of GBP37.82 on the day before speculation began regarding a potential proposal, a 39% premium to the closing price of GBP35.86 on the day before our January proposal, and a 22% premium to the unaffected all-time high closing price since the formation of the Company in 1999. This is an opportunity for AstraZeneca shareholders to realize near-term value creation well in excess of its standalone prospects, as well as the opportunity to effectively trade up their AstraZeneca position for equity in the new combined Company, with far greater potential for value creation.

Up to this point, we've only had access to publicly-available information about AstraZeneca. Based on what we have learned through that information, we believe our revised proposal is compelling, and responds to what we've heard from their shareholders. We are very disappointed with their unwillingness to engage in conversations, and believe it is in the best interest of both companies, and AstraZeneca and Pfizer shareholders, that we pursue a friendly negotiated transaction that can be recommended by both our Boards.

We would like to engage with AstraZeneca to gain a better understanding of their business and prospects. We believe they're an excellent strategic fit for Pfizer, and they have a strong and complementary alignment across and within our product portfolio and research platform. That said, we remain very confident in our go-forward strategy, regardless of a combination. We see this as further enhancing our strategy, and consistent with creating shareholder value.

Regardless of whether we complete this transaction, the main pillars of our strategy remain in place. Namely, focusing on innovation and advancing our pipeline, maximizing the productivity and returns generated within our commercial businesses, and remaining good stewards of our shareholders' capital. We believe that our formidable proposal merits serious consideration. Given our position of strength, we will remain disciplined as we move through this process.

Turning to our performance for the quarter, overall, we continue to perform well in a challenging operating environment. Our financial performance was in line with our expectations. Revenues for the quarter reflected the continuing impact of product loss of exclusivity, and the expiration or near-term termination of some collaborations. A disproportionate amount of about one-third of the anticipated full-year impact was recorded in the first quarter.

If you exclude that impact, we had 1% operational growth. We saw growth from many of our key revenue drivers, including Lyrica, Xalkori, and Inlyta globally, Enbrel outside of the US and Canada, recently-launched products Eliquis and Xeljanz in the US, and from our collaboration with Mylan to market generic drugs in Japan.

I would point out that our business has historically demonstrated seasonality of revenues, and this quarter was no different. In terms of product developments, we reported positive results from Prevnar 13 CAPiTA study in older adults, and announced FDA approvals, including supplementary new drug applications for Xeljanz to include radiographic data in the label, and for Eliquis for prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis, as well as FDA approval of Nexium 24-Hour, for over-the-counter use, for the treatment of frequent heartburn in adults 18 and older.

There were several positive elements in our pipeline, including positive results from a randomized Phase II study of palbociclib in combination with letrozole, in first line treatment of ER-positive HER2-negative advanced breast cancer, positive results from a randomized Phase II study of bococizumab in the reduction of LDL cholesterol, and a breakthrough therapy destination from the FDA for a meningitis B vaccine for the prevention of invasive meningococcal disease in adolescents and young adults.

For the full year revenue outlook, we anticipate key products will continue exhibiting growth, and that operational growth in emerging markets will be in the mid-single digit range rather than in the 3% range we saw in this quarter. Typically, our sequential annual product revenue pattern exhibits relative strength in the late quarters, compared to our first quarter. For the balance of 2014, we anticipate incremental revenue contributions from Eliquis, Xeljanz, Prevnar 13 adult, Duavee, and the expected launch of over-the-counter Nexium.

As you know, at the beginning of this year, we implemented the new commercial operating structure to position the Company for the future, and to focus on maximizing growth. We have three global operating segments, Global Innovative Pharma; Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare; and Global Established Product Pharma. These segments are fully functioning and are increasing the focus of management in providing greater transparency to shareholders, and enhancing our ability to drive the business.

As we previously committed to you in today's earnings announcement, we provided the revenues and costs associated with each of these operating segments. In a few minutes, the leaders of each segment, Geno Germano, Albert Bourla, and John Young, will provide you with additional context regarding the performance of their particular segment.

While we have moved to this new operating structure, our overall focus and priorities have not changed. We remain focused on driving future value creation for shareholders by delivering innovative new products, maximizing the potential of our existing products, remaining diligent in terms of capital allocation, and driving a culture that continues to foster a strong ownership environment.

Reflecting on the state of our business, I am pleased with our pipeline progress. We are continuing to see the benefit of the decisions we took over three years ago, when we decided to focus our research and development in the areas where we have the most expertise, and where the greatest unmet medical need exists.

Looking at the compounds we have across all stages of our pipeline, I can confidently say that this part of our strategy is on track and gaining momentum. Similarly, our past and current steadfast focus on the prudent management of our capital is enhancing the overall competitiveness of our businesses.

This quarter, once again, we operationally reduced our adjusted cost of sales, adjusted S&I expenses, and adjusted R&D expense in total. We will continue to build on our solid track record of realizing benefits from cost reductions and productivity initiatives, and as we have done in the past, we will use business development opportunities as an enabler of strategies for creating shareholder value.

Overall, I believe we are performing well in a challenging operating environment. Our pipeline is advancing. We have a strong track record when it comes to using capital to generate value, and we have an engaged and motivated workforce that has embraced the culture of ownership. Collectively, these are the elements of our strategy that are helping to drive our overall business results.

Throughout this year, you will see us taking actions to execute on our plans to advance new therapies for patients, strengthen our commercial businesses, manage our cost structure, and deploy our capital in ways that yield the greatest value to our shareholders. Now, I'll turn it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day everyone. As always, the charts we are reviewing today are included in our webcast.

Before I begin, I want to remind everyone that at the beginning of this year, we began operating under our new commercial structure, consisting of three operating segments: Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals; Global Vaccines, Oncology, and Consumer Healthcare; and Global Established Pharmaceuticals. Consequently, we are now reporting our quarterly and annual P&L in accordance with this structure for all periods presented.

I also want to remind everyone that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24, 2013, the financial results of the Animal Health business are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statement of income for the first quarter 2013. Now let's move on to the financials.

First quarter of 2014 revenues of approximately $11.4 billion decreased 9% year-over-year, reflecting a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange, and an operational decline of approximately 6%, driven mainly by the expiration on October 31, 2013 of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreements for Enbrel in the US and Canada, the ongoing expiration of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries, continued erosion for branded Lipitor in the US and most other developed markets, the loss of exclusivity and subsequent multi-sourced generic competition for Detrol LA in the US, and other product losses of exclusivity in certain markets.

These were partially offset by the strong operational growth of Lyrica, Xalkori and Inlyta globally; Enbrel outside of the US and Canada; Eliquis and Xeljanz, primarily in the US; the contribution from the collaboration to market generic medicines in Japan, with Mylan. In addition, reported revenues included $57 million from transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis.

Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.57 increased 12%, primarily due to an aggregate operational decrease of 3% in adjusted cost of sales; adjusted SI&A expenses; and adjusted R&D expenses, primarily resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives; a lower effective tax rate; and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, due to our ongoing share repurchase program, and the impact of the Zoetis exchange offer. Reported diluted EPS of $0.36 compared with $0.38 in the year-ago quarter, was positively impacted by the above-mentioned items and lower restructuring and asset impairment charges, compared with the year-ago quarter.

Reported results were negatively impacted by the previously mentioned year-over-year decrease in revenues, and the non-recurrence of income from discontinued operations associated with our Animal Health business, and the gain associated with the transfer of certain product rights to Pfizer's JV with Hisun in China in the year-ago quarter. Finally, higher legal charges compared with the year-ago quarter.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted first-quarter revenues by 3% to $364 million, and had a net positive impact of $195 million on the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted first-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01, compared to the year-ago quarter.

Now moving on to our 2014 financial guidance, historically, our business has demonstrated seasonality of revenues, and this quarter is no different. That said, we are confirming all components of our adjusted 2014 financial guidance ranges, and as such, continue to expect our adjusted revenue to be in the range of $49.2 billion to $51.2 billion.

We expect that the continued momentum from our new products, including Prevnar 13 adult, Xeljanz, Eliquis, Inlyta, and Xalkori; the expected launch of over-the-counter Nexium; and the accelerating operational growth in emerging markets will help to mitigate the impact of product LOEs and losses of alliance revenue. It's important to note that our adjusted financial guidance continues to reflect a full-year contribution from Celebrex in the US. If necessary, we will update our financial guidance when we are in a better position to make an informed judgment about the market exclusivity of Celebrex in the US from May 30 through the end of this year.

With respect to reported diluted EPS, due to the applicability of the UK Takeover Code to our proposed combination with AstraZeneca, we are not currently permitted to confirm or update our 2014 reported diluted EPS guidance, which is our customary quarterly practice. Preparation of certain reports by our reporting accountants and financial advisors in accordance with the UK takeover code are currently under way.

Because Pfizer recorded a number of charges during the first quarter of 2014, relating primarily to the resolution of litigation-related matters, Pfizer's previously-issued 2014 reported diluted EPS guidance is no longer valid. Updated reported diluted EPS guidance will be provided as soon as practical.

As required by the UK takeover code, the Pfizer responsible officers including Ian, Doug Lankler, our General Counsel, and me, confirm that the adjusted financial guidance provided has been properly compiled, based on the same assumptions set out in the adjusted financial guidance issued on January 28, 2014, and prepared in accordance with the accounting policies of Pfizer.

Now, I'll turn it over to the business leads, Geno Germano, Albert Bourla, and John Young, for their respective commentary on their results for the Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals; Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare; and Global Established Pharma units. Geno?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Frank, and hello everyone. The Global Innovative Pharma is our research-driven biopharmaceutical business, focused on developing and commercializing innovative new medicines.

Our current portfolio consists of newly-launched products including Eliquis and Xeljanz, key in-line brands including Lyrica outside of Europe, and Enbrel outside of the United States and Canada, in addition to other products that we generally anticipate will maintain market exclusivity beyond 2015. Our strategy involves making targeted investments to help grow our recently-launched brands and other leading medicines, in order to generate sustainable revenue growth over time, as well as making investments in R&D to support our next wave of innovative products.

Some of these near term investment objectives include continuing to build on our momentum with Eliquis among cardiologists, focusing on the differentiated clinical profile, building on the efficacy profile of Xeljanz in the United States through promotion of the data regarding inhibition of structural damage that's now included in our labeling, and also our monotherapy indication. Leveraging our strong presence in the women's health category to launch Duavee in the United States as a potential new standard of care for moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause, and prevention of post-menopausal osteoporosis. Continuing investment in direct-to-consumer advertising for Lyrica, Chantix and Viagra in the United States, plus investments in growth markets such as Japan, and supporting ongoing Phase III clinical studies for bococizumab, ertugliflozin, and Xeljanz.

Moving to the first-quarter results for the Global Innovative Pharma segment. In the first quarter, revenue declined 4% operationally versus first-quarter 2013, and this was largely due to the expiration of the Enbrel co-promotion term in the United States and Canada.

Revenues were also negatively impacted by the loss of exclusivity of Lyrica in Canada in February 2013, as well as some other smaller LOEs from prior periods. If we exclude the impact of Enbrel and these LOEs, our underlying operational revenue growth was 10%, driven primarily by continued growth of Xeljanz, Eliquis, Enbrel, outside of the United States and Canada, and Lyrica outside of Europe.

Now I'd like to review selected financial highlights for the Global Innovative Pharma segment. As a reminder, the revenues and expenses presented are those that were directly attributable to the GIP segment. First-quarter 2014 income before taxes declined 5% operationally to $1.8 billion versus first quarter 2013.

IBT as a percent of revenues on an operational basis declined modestly to 57.4%. Increased investment in recently-launched brands and key in-line products, partially offset by benefits from cost reduction and productivity initiatives, resulted in a 12% operational increase in SI&A expenses, compared to prior-year quarter. Our first-quarter 2014 R&D expense grew 29% operationally compared to last year, as we initiated Phase III programs for bococizumab, and ertugliflozin, and continued investment in our extensive clinical development program for potential new Xeljanz indications.

Additionally, IBT in the first quarter of 2014 benefited from a significant increase in other income, primarily due to trailing royalties earned on sales of Enbrel in the United States and Canada after October 31, 2013. On that date, the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement for Enbrel in the United States and Canada expired, and we became entitled to royalties for a 36-month period.

In conclusion, we're excited about the GIP portfolio and our pipeline. We believe our focused investment strategy this year will drive sustained future revenue growth. And now, I'd like to turn it over to Albert Bourla to discuss the global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare segment.

ALBERT BOURLA, PRESIDENT OF VACCINES, ONCOLOGY, AND CONSUMER HEALTHCARE BUSINESS, PFIZER INC.: Thank you very much, Geno, and hello, everybody.

VOC is comprised of three separate distinct businesses: Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare, each poised for organic growth over time. We've had an eventful year so far, and have achieved several significant milestones.

First, with Vaccines, we presented positive results from Prevnar 13's CAPiTA trial at a major conference, which clearly demonstrated that Prevnar 13 can prevent a significant portion of pneumococcal community-acquired pneumonia in adults age 65 and older. Evidence from this study is important for a population in which age-related decline of the immune system makes it difficult to prevent disease.

Hospitalizations due to pneumococcal pneumonia in adults represent a growing burden to public health systems. For example, the annual cost of adult hospitalization in the US alone is estimated at $8 billion. We look forward to further discussing this data with regulatory authorities and vaccine technical committees to help inform decisions regarding Prevnar 13 label and recommendation updates.

Regarding ACIP, we have had productive interim discussions with the pneumococcal working group. We are prepared for a more formal ACIP presentation in June, should the CDC confirm that topic in their agenda. Second, in vaccines again, the FDA granted breakthrough therapy designation of our vaccine for meningitis B, a disease that is characterized by rapid onset, with high rates of fatality. We intend to file a BLA with the FDA by mid-2014.

Moving to Oncology, we presented positive results from palbociclib's PALOMA-1 trial at a major conference. We are very pleased with the results, which highlight the potential of palbociclib to become a new standard of care for women with ER-positive HER-2 negative advanced breast cancer. This is encouraging information for these women who represent approximately 60% of the advanced breast cancer population. We continue to have productive and ongoing discussions with the FDA about this data, as well as the other necessary supporting data for a New Drug Application.

We continue to envision this potential pathway to filing an NDA based on the PALOMA-1 data, although no decision has been made. Once one has been made, we will communicate it publicly. We also began dosing patients in two additional Phase III trials, one in recurrent advanced breast cancer and one in early breast cancer. And next, we reported positive results for Xalkori compared to chemotherapy, in the first-line setting for ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer.

Finally, with Consumer Healthcare, we received FDA approval for Nexium 24-Hour, for over-the-counter use. This approval represents the first significant milestone in executing our Rx to OTC strategy. The US launch is set for May 27. We also continued to advance promising candidates to position the next wave of potential innovative launches, including the c-difficile and staph oral vaccines, as well as our small inhibitor for hematologic cancers.

Now, let's go to the first-quarter results. For this quarter, VOC segment delivered revenues of $2.2 billion, which represents an increase of 1% operationally, versus Q1 2013. Please note that the revenues and expenses presented are those that were directly attributable to the VOC segment.

Revenues for vaccines increased 2% operationally, driven by the US, primarily reflecting government purchasing patterns. Internationally, revenues were flat operationally, with emerging markets growing at 14% rate, driven primarily by China and GAVI purchases, but essentially offset by declines in the UK and Canada. Oncology revenues increased 10% operationally, due to growth from new products, Xalkori and Inlyta, partially offset primarily by changes in certain buying patterns in certain markets.

Consumer healthcare revenues declined 3% operationally, due to a soft cough, cold, flu season in the US and Canada, in comparison with the same period last year, extreme winter weather negatively impacting retail traffic in the US and increased competition for Advil with the return of certain brands to the market. However, it is important to note that as the year progresses, we anticipate revenues to be positively impacted as more healthcare providers appreciate the value of the Prevnar 13 adult indication. Of course, the full potential will depend upon updated labels and recommendation decisions.

Additionally, we expect our revenues to be positively impacted by the launch of Nexium 24-Hour and other consumer products, the timing of certain national immunization programs and continued uptake of recently launched products in oncology, among other factors.

I would like now to walk you through a few additional highlights from the VOC segment financials, specifically regarding our income and our direct, managed expenses. VOC segment income before taxes was $1.1 billion or 48.6% of our revenue. This represents an improvement of 2.8 percentage points operationally.

Our gross margin was $1.8 billion or 81.2% of revenue, an improvement of 0.8 percentage points, compared to the year-ago quarter. Due to a greater portion of this year coming from our oncology and vaccines businesses, as well as further cost efficiencies in manufacturing.

SI&A expenses were $531 million. This represents a 2% increase operationally, primarily due to pre-launch expenses for Nexium. However, as a percentage of revenues, our SI&A spend has remained consistent year-over-year. The VOC R&D expenses were $184 million, which represents an 18% decrease due to the completion of certain Phase III trials, which more than offset incremental costs related to the expansion of the palbociclib clinical development program.

Thank you, and I will now hand it over to John Young, Group President of the Global Established Pharmaceuticals segment.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Albert, and good morning everyone.

Global Established Pharma, GEP, is a large and highly diverse business, with unique opportunities across portfolios and geographies. It's a significant cash generator, and it's Pfizer's largest business. For the first quarter of 2014, the GEP business accounted for just over half of Pfizer's total revenue, and about two-thirds of Pfizer's total revenue from the emerging markets comes from GEP.

Notably during the first quarter, emerging markets comprised nearly 30% of GEP's segment revenues. Contrary to some perceptions of this business, traditional commodity generic products in developed markets are actually a very small part of the GEP portfolio, and account for only about 5% of GEP revenues. We see our GEP strategic priorities as two-fold: One, is to optimize the financial performance of the declining components in the developed markets. And two, focus on the current and future areas of growth, aimed at reversing the decline trend of not optimizing the business margins over the mid to longer term.

Before I get into the details of the GEP performance at quarter one, I'd like to give a quick overview of the business, and how it's structured. GEP is comprised of three components that have different market dynamics. Two of these components are in the developed markets:

Firstly, peri-LOE includes major brands that have recently lost or are approaching the loss of exclusivity, such as Celebrex, Lyrica in Europe, Zyvox, Pristiq, and Detrol. Secondly, legacy established products includes mature, off-patent products such as Lipitor and Norvasc, and we also have targeted opportunities that exist in this product grouping.

We expect to see a decline in both of these areas, due to intense erosion from generic competition. However, we will continue to focus on growing the patented brands prior to the loss of market exclusivity, as well as to optimize the transition of brands to the off-patent stage, and extend their life beyond LOE.

The third component is the emerging markets, including the BRIC-MT markets. This includes all GEP products sold in emerging countries and growth opportunities in emerging markets, including the BRIC-MTs. This component is expected to grow steadily, driven by favorable macroeconomic and improving socioeconomic conditions in these countries.

Growth opportunities represents a fourth dynamic of the GEP business, and includes organic and inorganic initiatives such as partnerships, product enhancements, and our biosimilars portfolio, spanning both developed and emerging markets. We anticipate these opportunities will drive revenue growth in our legacy EP developed and emerging markets portfolios over time.

Now let's go to the GEP first-quarter results. For this quarter, GEP delivered revenues of $6 billion, which represents a 10% decline operationally.

The peri-LOE products in developed markets experienced an overall decline of 17% operationally, due to the loss of exclusivity and subsequent multi-source generic competition for Detrol LA in the US, and for Viagra in most European markets, as well as the termination of the co-promotion agreement for Aricept in Japan, and the decline in our share of revenues, resulting from the wind-down and termination of the Spiriva co-promotion agreement for certain markets. However, it's important to note that certain patent-protected products have shown positive operational growth, including Lyrica in Europe, Pristiq in the US and developed international markets, as well as Inspra in developed international markets.

Our legacy established products in developed markets experienced a 10% operational decline, primarily due to the continued share erosion by generic versions of Lipitor in the US, and most developed international markets. The legacy emerging markets increased 1% operationally. Growth was negatively impacted by certain one-time issues, and removing these, operational growth would have been 4%, driven by our BRIC-MT markets.

The growth opportunities increased 10% operationally, driven primarily by contributions from the collaboration with Mylan to market generic drugs in Japan, and Quillivant XR sales in the US. This growth opportunity's performance is reflected in the previously-mentioned operational results of the legacy established products and emerging markets components. To provide one final metric for how we measure GEP's underlying performance, excluding aligned products, LOEs and Lipitor in developed markets, the operational revenue decline in the first quarter of 2014 for the remaining 92% of GEP's portfolio was 2%, as opposed to 10% for the segment overall.

I'll now walk you through a few additional highlights from the GEP financials, and will explain what is driving some of the ratios, and how I see them evolving. I'll be speaking to our direct managed expenses relative to our revenues.

Income before taxes that is directly attributable to GEP was $4 billion in the first quarter 2014, or almost 68% of GEP's revenue. This represents an improvement of 1.7 percentage points on an operational basis. Our gross margin was $5 billion, or 83% of revenue. This is representative of the portfolio profile of the GEP business that is mainly composed of post-LOE and peri-LOE brands, with a smaller contribution from generics. As large brands leave market exclusivity, this gross margin will come under pressure.

GEP SI&A expenses were $837 million in the quarter. This represents a 20% operational decrease, and is primarily driven by decreased sales force expenses in both developed and emerging markets, as well as resource allocation favoring higher growth opportunities within the emerging markets. This 20% reduction also reflects a favorable one-time item this quarter related to administrative expenses.

We will continue to make SI&A expense discipline a focus of the management of our business. The GEP R&D expenses for the quarter are 2.3% of revenue, and represent a 23% operational decline. This is the result of focused reductions in operational expenses, partially offset by higher spending for clinical trials associated with the development of our biosimilars portfolio. Moving forward, we expect to increase investment in those assets that have entered and will enter Phase III.

In summary, while GEP is expected to go through a period of revenue decline over the next few years, primarily due to the LOEs of major brands in developed markets, we are focused on building our revenue base and stabilizing margins over the mid to longer term, and following the period of anticipated LOEs, we expect revenue growth to return as our growth opportunities become a more substantial piece of the GEP business in the future.

Thank you. And I'd now like to hand it back to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Thanks, John.

Now moving on to key take-aways, our first-quarter 2014 results were in line with our expectations, and reflect the loss of exclusivity of certain products, the expiration and near term termination of certain collaboration agreements, and the continued challenging operating environment. We confirmed all components of our 2014 adjusted financial guidance, which continues to reflect the full-year contribution from Celebrex in the US. We're now operating under our new commercial structure, and the presentation of our financial results for the new structure provides transparency into each of our global segments.

With respect to our late-stage R&D pipeline, we achieved the statistically significant primary endpoint results in our PALOMA-1 Phase II breast cancer study of palbociclib, and began dosing patients for two Phase III breast cancer trials. And we presented positive results of our CAPiTA trial, which demonstrated that Prevnar 13 prevented a first episode of vaccine-type community-acquired pneumonia in adults 65 years or older.

We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. To date in 2014, we've repurchased $1.7 billion, or approximately 54.3 million shares, and we continue to expect to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock this year.

Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2014 and beyond. Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank.

And I want to thank the audience for listening. I know the prepared remarks were longer than typical, but given it was the first quarter with the new financials for the segments, we wanted to give our business leaders some time to walk through their segments in the financials. We'll get ready for the Q&A session, and I think I would just reiterate once more related to questions regarding AstraZeneca, we will have limitations placed on our responses by the UK Takeover Code.

With that, operator, if we could please poll for questions. Thank you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: If I could just throw one at you. I'm sure you've gotten this in all kind of one-on-one meetings, and it might be good just to address it again. The big concern I guess about the AZ deal or proposed deal is that you obviously think there's something wrong with Pfizer, if Pfizer wasn't able to acquire AstraZeneca. I was just wondering, Ian or Frank, if I could just get a general reaction to that.

Number two, the Street, as I understand it, is currently modeling pretty dramatic revenue decreases for GEP, as well as more modest decreases for GIP over the long term. I heard in the prepared remarks you talked about a return to growth in GEP. I was just wondering if you could expand on that a little bit, and help us out. I know you did a little bit, but I'd appreciate some more color if possible.

And finally, an easy one for Frank, since you have 2013 segment information, as least for the 1Q of 2013 in the press release, is there any chance that those numbers could be audited? Such that would become year one? Thank you very much.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mark, for your one question. I think we've gone out of our way to say that this -- I see this AZ deal as a way to accelerating an already good strategy. I think we've gone at pains in this release to point out the exciting developments in our pipeline, the evolution of fixing of any core, the way we return value to shareholders, and so I definitely feel that we did this out of a position of strength.

In fact, we, having approached AZ in December, and having received a negative from them in confidential conversations, decided to wait until we had results of palbociclib and adult vaccine, so that if we came back into the market it would be seen as we're coming back from a position of strength. So we will continue to operate our business, continue to drive shareholder value, and feel very confident about our standalone strategies.

I'm going to ask John to talk a little bit about GEP, and I believe interesting enough, GEP when you took out the loss of exclusivity, or loss of the deal with Amgen and other smaller LOEs, it was 10% growth, which is a really good growth in that area, solid in that area. John, regarding GEP?

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks for your question, Mark. So I think we've -- certainly in my prepared remarks, and the meetings we've had with the analyst community, one of the things we've been very clear on is that we know in the short to medium term, we will see pressure on revenues as we experience losses of exclusivity from some of the major brands in our portfolio that are either already post LOE and are still coming under pressure. Brands would include Lipitor falling into that bucket, or some of the major brands that we have in our portfolio, that have yet to lose exclusivity, but will do so over the next coming few months and years, so brands like Lyrica in the EU, like Celebrex in the US, like Zyvox, and so on.

So to be clear, we certainly know that this is a business portfolio which will come under revenue pressure in the short to medium term. But in the medium to longer term, we certainly see our revenues plateauing and having the opportunity to return to growth. And the underlying drivers for that opportunity that we see in the medium term would include our biosimilars portfolio. We believe we're going to have a strong biosimilars portfolio, or we hope, ultimately five biosimilars that we will aim to bring to market.

Clearly, the landscape for that type of portfolio and the regulatory environment is still evolving, but we have regulators that have clarified the regulatory pathway. We actually believe that is a very positive opportunity for growth.

Additionally, we see the opportunities for growth with this portfolio in some of the emerging markets, including China as an example, but not limited to China, remain very positive. Our China business continues to perform well, and additionally, we see additional opportunities for growth with certain key partnerships such as Hisun in China, and our Teuto partnership.

When we put all those things together, whilst in the short to medium term we certainly will see continued pressures on revenues, in the medium to long term, we do believe this business has a number of underlying factors which will enable us to return to growth in the medium to longer term. Hopefully that answers your question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Thank you, it's Frank. Mark, no change from what I have said previously. 2014 year one, three years prospective audited financials. I think the key here is to remember audited financials require more than an income statement.

They require a balance sheet, a cash flow statement, another comprehensive income statement, and a shareholders equity statement. So no change from what I've said previously.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I just had two questions. First, with respect to Xeljanz, obviously the competitive landscape will evolve down the line, but you've talked about driving greater uptake. Could you just comment on why you wouldn't consider discounting more to drive greater share?

Obviously, the plans are using safety concerns to limit formulary adoption in an attractive Tier 2 status position. But really, the plans obviously get tremendous rebates on Humira and Enbrel. So I'm just wondering how we should think about the pricing strategy for Xeljanz, and if pricing can be a greater lever to drive greater uptake.

The follow-on to that is, since you've asked for just one question, could you just update us on the once-a-day formulation development and filing timing? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Dave. Geno, could you take those questions?

GENO GERMANO: Obviously, Dave, we're keenly aware of the pricing and access and reimbursement environment for Xeljanz, and frankly, in the whole class of biologics for RA, and have run all the scenarios. And frankly, at this point in time, we think the best thing to do is to continue to build on the positive profile that we're seeing with Xeljanz. In the data from our Phase III studies, from our long-term extension, now we have the structured data in our label, we had positive outcomes from patient-reported outcomes analyses, and we think that will give us the strength that we need with physicians and with payers, to continue to grow the business.

We saw a nice increase from fourth quarter of 2013 to first quarter of this year, with the 16% uptick in prescriptions, and we continue to gather momentum. So we're feeling pretty good about that. With regard to the once-a-day, we are putting the data together, and I believe we're planning to file next year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: I appreciate all the business unit details. It's very helpful to understand the Company here. So two questions. The first was, if you actually split your business into three standalone entities, can you quantify how much more operating expense or dissynergy the Company would incur? I think it would just be a helpful data point, as the Street looks to value your various business units.

My second question was just on managing the Company in this business unit structure, I guess it's been about four months. Maybe the business unit leaders could talk about what they're finding in terms of the strategy and expense structure of the business.

I guess my question is, should we think about either incremental cost cutting or updated strategic priorities for one or more of these units over time, as the new management teams further review their franchises, or is everybody pretty comfortable in terms of how the businesses are positioned today, and how they're being managed? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Chris, on this idea of three segments, I think I would draw the market to the view that there are actually two major segments inside the Company. There is an innovative core and there is an established products.

And as we look to the future optionality, I would be more focused on that than looking at multiple businesses with multiple dissynergies. So we don't really think there's any material dissynergies, if these businesses were to be standalone, or these two segments. In fact, we think that management focus overcomes those type of dissynergies.

And on getting to this stage, given we've taken so long with prepared remarks, I'm really going to say I think we feel we've laid out for you by our opening comments the major strategies of these businesses, and during the year, will be ample time, I think, for the business unit leaders to have conversations with you. Frank, do you want to add something to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Just a couple quick things on the first point, on the standalone, to respond to Chris. Chris, we gave you all the detail we could relative to the direct managed and then the allocated piece, with the big chunks of the allocated piece being research and development through POC, medical, and then corporate centers. Finance, IT, those kinds of functions.

In terms of hypothetically, if they were separate companies, there would be some incremental cost, right? There's one CFO in the Company today. They'd each need their own CFO, and they'd each need their own general counsel, so there'd be those kind of incremental costs.

We didn't assign any of the interest expense or the interest income to the businesses, either. We left it out of the allocation. So there's some items, clearly, that would be incremental, if they were to be standalone. To Ian's point, I don't think there's anything that would be really material to those being standalone businesses.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just a couple. On Prevnar 13, you had mentioned that the next ACIP meeting is in June. What are the potential outcomes of that meeting? I would assume that the most realistic outcome, given results of CAPiTA, would be that Prevnar 13 would be included in the 65 and older mandated vaccination schedule, if you could confirm that.

Just one other question, rather two other questions on the new business structure. Ian, how does the business development process work in the context of the new structure? If VOC wants to make an acquisition of GIP or GEP, I may have gotten those wrong, want to make acquisitions, are they competing with each other for capital? How do you assess which of the three groups get capital to make acquisitions.

Finally, Frank, I noticed when you broke down the three businesses that there is a very large R&D expense, $896 million allocated under other. How do we think about that other business, and how do we allocate that across three businesses? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thanks for the questions. I'm going to just answer the Prevnar 13 because I think we're -- as I said, we took a long time with prepared remarks. They will consider in June.

Normally the usual practice is for ACIP to have two meetings, one to debate, and the second meeting they will vote on. They may decide to short step that in June and both discuss and vote, but the normal pattern would be a discussion in June, and then a vote in October. Albert, do you want to add anything to that? Is that fine?

ALBERT BOURLA: That's fine. It's not unprecedented that they have done it one meeting.

IAN READ: It's not unprecedented. We're working with them. The data was really good. But we're working with the agencies as hard as we can to get excited about this data.

On BD, how it works is that there is a corporate cost of capital, and BD is run corporately. In essence, each business unit will have projects that they bring forward to the corporation. Competition for capital is not necessarily -- we're not necessarily limited in capital.

There's competition for good ideas and best returns, and I think the most important thing of this structure is that it puts the business leaders on the accountability side of the projects they want to get funding for. So I think it clears up and makes it very, very -- it's good governance that inside the Company now, a BU leader says I want to do this project, I stand by it and I'm a champion by it and accountability attaches, which I think brings a great judgment and a great discipline to capital allocation. Frank, you want to add anything to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: I was going to answer Jami's third question. I don't have anything to add on the biz-dev line. Jami, I think, the best way for me to explain this is to point you to certain pages of the release, and just quickly walk you through it, if that's okay.

If you go to chart number 18, you'll see up on the top, the quarter ended March 30, 2014, and then there's a column called Other, and in that column called Other there's an R&D expense line, which amounts to $896 million, which is the number you quoted. If you go to the next page and you go to the tables on the bottom but the one higher up on page 19, you'll see the $896 million off to the right, the far right column, and then you'll see the breakdown of that between the different organizations.

And then if you go to the next page and you go to the table again, but the bottom three numbers, you'll see in the last number there, research and development expenses, and you see how we give percentage ranges to drive it to each of the BUs. We try to provide drill down for you all, so you could see how we take the numbers and then how we drill them down, and we gave you ranges of allocation to enable you to do that by business unit.

CHUCK TRIANO: Very helpful, Frank. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: I don't know to what extent you'll be able to answer this, obviously AstraZeneca in terms of its statements has pushed back around valuation, the mix of cash and equity, and also execution risk. Would you characterize conversations you've had with shareholders voicing similar concerns, or perhaps is it slightly different reception as you go around asking about that?

And just another side question, just on GEP. I wonder if you could just break down the current R&D spend, in terms of what would be on newer projects such as biosimilars, and what may be associated with sort of older based business products. Thank you.

IAN READ: We listen to the shareholders and we made a -- we thought was a compelling offer, which fully valued AZ, and we're awaiting commentary back, or further commentary back from AZ. On the R&D, we've given you quite a lot of statistics in the back-up pages for you to allocate R&D. Perhaps John, you want to make a couple comments on the main spending gap.

JOHN YOUNG: As a precedent we don't sort of go into detail on the sort of breakdown of R&D expenses overall. I think what I mentioned, Jeff, in my opening comments, is that obviously includes operational expenses for the business unit as a whole, and also includes the expenses for the development of the biosimilars portfolio. And I think at this point, that's probably as much detail as I can give.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John. Next question, operator. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: So first question for Frank, and then the second question is actually on Prevnar 13. Frank, can you just talk about your cash and borrowing capacity, and remind us what your current rating is, and what the difference in the borrowing costs might be from the current rating to a single step-down in the rating.

And then separately, as we think about Prevnar 13 and the adult indication, obviously, there's been quite a bit of impressive data already accrued, in terms of the herd immunity that we've already seen presented to the ACIP. Just wonder if you could help us understand that in terms of the evaluation of Prevnar 13, particularly in international markets, and the willingness for national immunization programs to pay for the adult indication?

And then just a last question on Prevnar 13. The ACIP also reviewed a possibility of a three-dose schedule for Prevnar 13. Can you just update us quickly on how a three-dose schedule might actually evolve, or if that's a very unlikely situation, or if the product is already being used mostly at a three-dose schedule? Thanks so much.

IAN READ: Okay. So I'll ask Frank to answer the cash and borrowing and costs, and then we'll ask Albert to take the Prevnar adult, and the ACIP three-dose question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So Seamus, let me start with on the current ratings. With S&P -- I'll do long-term ratings first. S&P we're at AA, Moody's we're A1, Fitch we're an A-plus. On the short term ratings with S&P we're at A1-plus, with Moody's we're at P1, with Fitch, we're an F1.

In terms of cash and borrowing capacity, the end of last (technical difficulty) dollars. Obviously given that, given our ratings, we have a significant amount of borrowing capacity.

And in terms of a change in rating, what would that do to our borrowing cost? You got to make assumptions about notches, but I don't think there would be any material notch change, so whatever changes there were, would not be material. And quite frankly, if you look at the capital markets these days and investment grade paper, it's a very favorable market.

IAN READ: Albert?

ALBERT BOURLA: Let me start first with a side effect, and then I will speak about the dosing schedule. While Prevnar 13 has led to substantial reduction in the incidence of pneumococcal disease, the residual disease pattern in the US and globally is still significant. Even if it decayed after the introduction in the infant program, in the US alone there are 440,000 cases of known bacterial pneumococcal pneumonia. They account for 300,000 hospitalizations, 200,000 emergency room visits, and unfortunately, 90,000 deaths.

And the global WHO has also similar estimations, 600,000 to 800,000 adult annual deaths due to streptococcus pneumonia which is the leading cause of COPD. We need to understand that the scientific community and us of course do not regard the effect as an alternative to direct vaccination. So in summary, we believe that the vaccination with Prevnar 13 represents a compelling value proposition for healthcare systems around the world.

Moving now on the dose schedule. First of all, we support the continued scientific exchange on the top, but having said that, we have a vaccine schedule in the US, which has demonstrated success. And we believe that this clinically-proven, FDA-approved, CDC recommended four-dose schedule is the optimal way to protect US infants and young children from pneumococcal disease. Also, we believe there are no data in the US populations to make a decision to divest from this four-dose schedule, that it has proven to be so successful.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert, and from my point of view, and I think from society's point of view, the Prevnar 13 vaccination schedule delivers considerable value, and we see that value to society in the overall treatment, and don't necessarily really look at it as a per dose cost, it's more an overall value delivered by the protection. Mikael, do you want to add a little about the herd effect?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Albert described it very well. I could just comment one clinical aspect which we learned in Netherlands, is that when we type the serotypes the immune IPD cases which was possible by a proprietary asset that we have developed, it was nicely shown that significant a fraction, about a quarter of the cases refers to serotypes from the original Prevnar, the 7 valent, which clearly shows that although there has been immunization, there is residual serotypes remaining in the population, and herd effect is not sufficient to protect.

And finally, I also want to add a medical aspect, that with increasing age, you're more susceptible to severe outcomes and increased fatality occurs by age, underlining the importance that Albert alluded to, to get the campaign rather earlier rather than later in adults for protection.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: First question is for Frank. When we look retrospectively at the last big breakup that we had which was Abbott spinning off Abbvie, when we look back at that transaction, there was some dilution that was associated with it. By our math, the breakup of the two companies was about 15% dilutive in retrospect to what the separate companies would have earned, if they had stayed as one. In this instance, you're breaking up into three. What is the potential dilutive effect operationally, and potentially from any tax leakage, by breaking the entity up into three different businesses?

Second question, just for Ian. You indicated in your opening comments that once you had the palbo data and the Prevnar data, that positioned you at least from a position of strength, to be able to go back to AZN. Is your assumption then on palbo that you'll be able to file in 2014 and then launch in 2015? Are you assuming you're going to get a universal vaccination recommendation on Prevnar going forward? Is that the position of strength that you're coming at this from? Thanks.

IAN READ: On this whole issue of Abbott and Abbvie, we really can't comment on how they went about restructuring, or what expenses they incurred, and what dilution they incurred. I do believe, though, just from memory, that I think if you took their value of the two separate companies, after they did this, and you stripped out general market movement, they still created many billions of dollars of value. So I think that's a more important issue than the dilution or the small incremental cost of the separate companies.

By the way, as I tried to emphasize, John, we're not talking about -- there's no decision been taken regardless of separating these companies, and certainly we're not talking about a three or four-way split. We're talking about two major segments, just to emphasize that.

And on this question of yours on position of strength, I was not trying to assume any action on the part of the FDA or the ACIP panel. I was just talking about the strength of the data and the data's compelling and one would expect the marketplace to follow the data. So thank you for the question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Move to the next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Couple of questions that are both merger-related. What things do you think that a merged Pfizer and Astra can do better than Astra alone? In other words, what do you see as potential weaknesses of Astra's standalone business, either in terms of product mix or R&D ability, through geographic positioning or anything else?

I want to go back to a question I asked on the call you did last week. Just to confirm or reconfirm Pfizer's intentions, assuming it acquires Astra, is it again most likely that you would take the post-merger entity and eventually split it up completely into separate publicly-traded companies? Because it's kind of a different story if the answer to that is no. So I guess I'm just looking for some continued assurances here, not promises, but rather what's most likely, or is there something about inversion and redomiciling in the UK that would make a full split-up like that more difficult?

IAN READ: I think if you look from our point of view, if you look at AZ, and it's my view, not their view, so I'm talking my view of their strategy, not their view of their strategy, that they've had a strategy of -- confronted with massive LOEs, they've gone out and they have licensed in and brought in the lots of products from other companies. In fact, most of their pipeline is licensed-in products, with very few developed nationally.

But so we look at that and we look at the fit with our portfolio, especially in the immune oncology area, where they have assets which, standalone, are probably coming late to the market, but if they were combined with our portfolio, I think it strengthens their portfolio substantially. And then when you look at their products, they fit into our categories. So we believe that with our marketing presence and our ability in those categories, we can make more out of those products than they can standalone.

But the power of this deal for us is these three components. It's the fit on the portfolio, it's the nice fit with the early pipeline, but it's not a pipeline story, per se. It's also a removing of overlaps, and making the organization more efficient.

And I do believe you're seeing -- you'll continue to see a trend in the industry towards, as governments pressurize on access and pricing, they're really telling the industry you need to get more efficient. You need to bring to market higher-value products at a lower cost and there are ways -- different ways of doing that. There's internal improvements in your efficiencies, which Pfizer has done, and been very effective at.

There's asset swaps, which you saw going on between GSK and Novartis, which also gets to getting companies to remove overlaps. Or there is industry consolidation, which this would be an example of that. And then the third component of value here, which is really important for Pfizer, is this ability to free the balance sheet up, and get our tax rate down, which would enable a lot of different strategies.

And so all three of these elements are important. I've been asked, would you do it if you didn't have this part, you didn't have that part. I think the answer is I'm doing it because I have all three parts, and it strengthens our strategy right now, and creates, I believe, compelling shareholder value.

I would say on your other question that we are interested in preserving optionality that we've set up. We would see the integration of AstraZeneca with Pfizer along the way that we are organized.

We would preserve that optionality. We would focus on managing those businesses as efficiently as possible. And no decision has been taken about the future, as there's been no decision taken about our businesses at this moment in time, but we would conserve that optionality.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Couple things. First, you had mentioned last time on the call about palbo that you were going to be meeting with the FDA. Just wanted to know if that meeting actually had taken place, if you have it scheduled yet. I was a little unclear about your comments on palbo there.

Second, the meningitis B vaccine, when will we see the data? Three, on biosimilars, can you just remind us of when we will we start to see data from the studies there, these pivotal Phase IIIs and filings start to occur.

IAN READ: On palbo it is scheduled. It is extremely imminent. And once we've had that meeting, and once we have any confirmation from the FDA, we will let you know. We're still in discussions with the FDA. On meningitis B, I don't know who is the best, Mikael, do you have the data?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: I can just mention that we are in the process of sharing data at conferences. It includes experiences from our Phase I, Phase II and dosing schedules, and also very encouraging data, strong data on combining meningitis B with vaccines that are used in these age groups, such as Gardasil or the typical adolescent vaccines, different schedules in Europe and the US. Hence, we will present soon at European Society For Pediatric Infectious Disease, and later in this fall, a corresponding US presentation too.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Biosimilars?

JOHN YOUNG: So I'll get back to you with some specifics on our plans for presentation of the data. Just to remind you, we have two of our portfolios which are in Phase III. We have rituximab, which initiated Phase III or initiated Phase III in the second half of this year.

We have trastuzumab, where Phase III has already been initiated. Rituximab will go into Phase III in the second half of the year, trastuzumab is already there. There will be some time before we see the readout of those studies. We'll get back to you separately, in regard to your question about any plans to present any other of our Phase I data.

IAN READ: Thank you. I would say internally that Mikael is very satisfied with the profile that we're exhibiting, and the ability to say that it is biosimilar, and we're very pleased with the science we have and the capabilities around this development area.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks. We can move to the next question.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I have three brief ones. First, why is early stage R&D such a high percent of the total? 56% of R&D is unallocated to any division, which seems high versus your peers.

Second, why is there still uncertainty around Celebrex US sales from May 30 to the end of the year, given the settlements? And then lastly, Ian, are you willing to give any assurances of limited R&D cuts in the US, like you did in the UK? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, could we do first of all the early stage and the allocation algorithm there, and then Doug, will you answer the uncertainty?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So I think the best way to answer this, Steve, is the way we manage the organization which is all of the post POC R&D spend is in the business units, the new operating segments. The pre-POC R&D spend, so all the discovery, the research up and through inclusive of POC is in Mikael Dolsten's organization, WRD.

That's what you are seeing in the other column. That's really what's driving that. That's why you get the split that we currently have.

DOUG LANKLER, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC: So on Celebrex, both Mylan and Actavis have sued the FDA, having concluded that FDA will give Teva 180 days exclusivity. They believe unless the courts overseeing those suits rule in Mylan and Actavis' favor, and change FDA's ruling, that Teva is going to have exclusivity. We previously settled with Teva, and as part of that settlement the earliest date Teva can launch is December 2014, and their exclusivity would begin then.

IAN READ: Frank, you want to add to that answer?

FRANK D'AMELIO: I should have mentioned partner alliance too. Regulatory, toxicology, all those kinds of things, pharm sci are all in that other column as well.

IAN READ: So on your question about the integration of the two companies, I think we've made some commitments to the combined Company's presence in the UK, and we clearly will stay with a massive presence in the US, as a combined Company.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: On the VOC unit, Albert, you mentioned these are really three different businesses, blended into one. Can you just talk about that one, specifically in terms of synergies or overlaps, you see that make it worthwhile to keep them all as one unit, as opposed to being structured maybe differently?

On the consumer side, you obviously highlighted the news around Nexium 24-Hour. We saw some disappointing news for Singulair potentially being an OTC product. Given you've been generally bullish on the Rx-OTC switch opportunity. How important do you see is it to have a consumer business internally, to be able to profit from that opportunity, as opposed to maybe alliances with other companies that might have consumer, if you didn't have one yourself?

IAN READ: Vamil, thank you for the questions. First question, remind me again was on --?

FRANK D'AMELIO: The three separate units.

IAN READ: These units are independent global units that are run basically separately. I think any type of -- and Albert is a very experienced business leader and has three division heads reporting to him. Any type of synergies between those businesses are more of the nature of managerial talent and leveraging strategies across great leaders, and not really addressed towards synergizing operational infrastructure of those businesses as they are distinct, they are global, and they have their own culture and their own focus, which is part of the reason why we've made them global businesses.

On the other side, from the point of view of the corporation, the business is an important business for us. We see it as a great storer of value. We've made acquisitions in that business, and the OTC strategy is a component of the value of that business.

But we're not just managing that business only because we have an OTC strategy. We see acquisitions as part of that strategy, and switches and organic growth and the freshness index in the business and continuing to make sure that business grows. Thank you for the question.

CHUCK TRIANO: We have time for our last question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Ian, at what point would you consider going directly to AstraZeneca shareholders? You mentioned a premium that you're offering, plus your disappointment by the Company's lack of engagement.

On the pipeline, and approaching AstraZeneca from a position of strength, other than palbo and Prevnar 13 in adults, what are the other key assets that you think may not be adequately appreciated by the Street? Thank you.

IAN READ: We've made public our offer to the Board. We remain considering all our options on how we progress these discussions.

And I think on our -- you're talking about our pipeline. I think you've got PCSK9 which is -- we will arrive at the market, we expect roughly the same time as the other major competitors in that, with outcomes data.

We have palbo, we have all the trials around palbo, Prevnar 13 in adult, we've got a meningitis B, we've got the ertugliflozin with Merck. We have the Xeljanz license extensions around that, continuing growth in Eliquis, continuing growth in Xeljanz, continuing growth in our oncology portfolio, and Inlyta, and Xalkori. Some very good fast filing products in oncology, that could come to market, given we think they are very differentiated.

Frankly, opportunities abound inside our Company, both from the in-line portfolio, the emerging markets opportunities, the pipeline, recent launches, and to be launched, and then if you look at the -- across vaccines, oncology, and get a very nice portfolio of unique opportunities. So as I say, this is -- we're doing this because we see an opportunity to create additional value from this acquisition or combination, not because we feel any negativity towards our present strategy, which we feel is very strong.

Okay. Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Thank you, everybody. For your time today.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, everybody.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's Pfizer First-Quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
iphddd : Drug Discovery/Development | i2569 : Biotechnology | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c23 : Research/Development | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140507ea550018i
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,783 words
   PD
28 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's fourth-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC: Thank you, operator. Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth-quarter 2013 performance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Albert Bourla, President of Vaccines, Oncology, and Consumer; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano, President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young, President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler, General Counsel.

The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Fourth Quarter 2013 which is located in the For Investors section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussion during this call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Discussion during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today January 28, 2014. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Chuck, and good morning, everyone. We finished 2013 with a solid fourth quarter and the overall financial performance of the year was strong. Looking at the quarter, we delivered good operational performance. Revenues and emerging markets grew 9%. Established products revenues grew 6%. Oncology revenues grew 29%, and consumer health care grew 2%.

We also had strong quarterly revenue performance operationally from key inline products such as Lyrica which grew 14%, Celebrex which grew 9%, and Enbrel outside of North America which grew 8%. We continue to see positive progress with our recently launched products Eliquis and Xeljanz. For Eliquis, in the last two quarters of 2013 we saw definitive momentum across key metrics resulting from the actions we implemented together with our partners BMS.

While we are starting from a small base, the trend we are seeing on sales growth for Pfizer is significant. Specifically we saw a 124% increase in sales globally in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the third quarter, and TRx volume in the US for Eliquis increased 68% from the third to the fourth quarter of 2013.

For Xeljanz, we continue to see a steady increase in US scripts, over 28% growth in TRx volume in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2013. Physician feedback continues to be positive. To date, nearly 3500 HCPs have prescribed Xeljanz and nearly 80% are repeat prescribers.

Now turning to highlights for the year. We met or exceeded every element of our financial guidance. We drove operational growth in key products including Lyrica, Celebrex, and Enbrel outside of North America. Looking at how our businesses performed operationally, emerging markets reported solid single digit growth of 6%, oncology grew 29%, and consumer health business grew 5%.

We saw advancement in our pipeline across the portfolio. We achieved approval in the US for Duavee for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause and prevention of post menopausal osteoporosis. We expect to launch next month and the FDA approved a prior approval supplement for Embeda extended release capsules.

We initiated a Phase 3 program which includes pivotal and outcome studies bococizumab, the proposed generic name for our PCSK9 monoclonal antibody to lower LDL cholesterol. We initiated two Phase 3 studies with palbociclib in advanced breast cancer and began enrolling patients in a third Phase 3 study with a German breast group in patients with early breast cancer at a high risk of recurrence.

We initiated a Phase 3 program with our partner Merck for ertugliflozin, our SGL2 inhibitor for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. We concluded a Phase 2 study for our staph aureus vaccine which showed encouraging signals that our vaccine elicits positive immune response. We expect to present this data at a medical conference this year.

We completed a Phase 2A proof of concept study with a novel PDE5 inhibitor in diabetic neuropathy which showed an encouraging clinical profile warranting further exploration in Phase 2B. We conducted Phase 1 proof of concepts on biosimiliars of rituximab and infliximab which concluded with positive outcomes on the relevant study end points.

And for Xeljanz in Europe, where we received a negative opinion last year for our rheumatoid arthritis indication, we are continuing to pursue registration on actively engaging discussions with regulators and the development of additional data in support of refiling, although we continue to expect this result in a several year delay.

We reduced our total adjusted cost of sales, SI&A, and R&D expenses on an operational basis by approximately 3%, which is about an $850 million reduction versus 2012 levels. We completed the separation of Zoetis and generated approximately $17.3 billion in after tax value.

We returned nearly $23 billion to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases and we put in place and are operating in our new commercial structure. Each business has strong leadership in place, and we believe that by having a sharper focus we can better maximize the performance of all our businesses. In terms of financial transparency, we will provide a management view of profit and loss for each business starting with the first-quarter results this year.

To sum up the year, we strengthened our innovative core by advancing key R&D programs, created significant value for our shareholders with disciplined capital allocation, and our commercial businesses performed well during a time of transition and difficult market dynamics.

Three years ago we laid out the priorities and strategies for how we would create value for each of our businesses and address R&D productivity challenges. Over the course of the last three years our priorities and our strategies have not changed and I believe are showing strong results. Again in 2014, you can expect us to remain intensely focused on maximizing the opportunities within each of our commercial businesses, continue to advance science, innovation, and our pipeline, and prudently deploying our capital.

We see distinct opportunities for each of our commercial businesses this year. The Global Innovative Pharma Business will focus on accelerating the uptake trajectory of newly launched products Xeljanz and Eliquis, and driving growth from major inline brands like Lyrica, Enbrel outside of North America, Viagra in the US, and Chantix. The Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare Business, respectively, will capitalize on the Prevnar 13 franchise, concentrate on the recently launched oncology products Xalkori, Inlyta, and Bosulif, and launch over the counter Nexium in Europe and in the US, provided it receives FDA approval.

The Global Established Pharma Business will focus on maximizing key [perielio] brands, namely Celebrex, Lyrica in the EU, and Zyvox. It will also support continued growth from important legacy off patented brands such as Lipitor and Norvasc in the emerging markets, build on local partnerships with those with Mylan, Teuto, and Hisun, and advance growth opportunities within the sterile injectables and biosimiliars portfolio.

Building on the pipeline advances achieved in 2013, there are several potential milestones in 2014. We expect to report in the near future the top line results for Phase 2 study of palbociclib in patients with post menopausal ER positive advanced breast cancer. The results of the CAPiTA trial for Prevnar 13 in adults 65 and older are expected to read out during this quarter, and if supportive we expect to discuss the data with the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, ACIP, in the US and other regulatory authorities.

Along with our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb, we are seeking approval for Eliquis, VTE prevention, in all VTE patients in the US and VTE treatment in the US and Europe. We have two pivotal trials in the Xeljanz Phase 3 oral psoriasis program that are anticipated to read out in the second quarter. For the staph aureus and meningitis B vaccines, we anticipate sharing results from Phase 2 studies at medical congresses this year while advancing the late stage development of both assets.

Last week we announced the top line Phase 3 results for ALO-02, an investigational agent of oxycodone hydrochloride, and naltrexone. It met the primary efficacy endpoints in patients with moderate to severe chronic low back pain, demonstrating a statistical significance compared to placebo.

Yesterday we announced top line results for two Phase 3 studies, BR.26 and Archer 1009, that evaluated dacomitinib in two different populations of previously treated patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. While we're disappointed that neither study met its primary end point, we will continue to evaluate the full data set from both trials to understand if molecularly defined subgroups of patients may derive benefit from dacomitinib.

In order to continue to develop a robust pipeline of highly differentiated molecules and vaccines that have the potential to be first or best in class, such as the therapies I just noted, requires ongoing R&D investment. In 2014 we will continue to be prudent stewards for how we allocate capital, and we will balance the need for incremental R&D investment with the need for delivering overall shareholder return. As we've done in the past, we will continue to use business development opportunities as an enabler of strategies to create value for our shareholders.

In summary, we start 2014 with a sound strategy and a strong business. We will build on our performance in 2013 by continuing to create a sustainable high value pipeline and establishing strong commercial businesses. By executing on our new product launches, growing key inline products, delivering on the potential at all phases of the pipeline, and effectively deploying our capital we will further strengthen all of our businesses.

Our top priority and commitment is to develop and to bring to patients innovative medicines that meet their needs, and that together with our actions, will generate and enhance shareholder value. Now I'll turn it over to Frank to take you through the details of the quarter and our financial guidance for 2014.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. I want to remind everybody that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24, 2013, the financial results of the animal health business are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for full year 2013 and fourth quarter and full year 2012.

Now let's move on to the financials. Fourth-quarter 2013 reported revenues were approximately $13.6 billion, which decreased 2% year over year, and reflect operational growth of approximately 1% driven mainly by the strong performance of Lyrica, Celebrex, Inlyta, and Xalkori globally, Enbrel outside of North America, and Xeljanz and Eliquis primarily in the US.

These were more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of approximately $397 million, or 3%, the expiration on October 31, 2013 of the collaboration agreement for Enbrel in North America, continued erosion for branded Lipitor in developed Europe and certain other developed markets, the ongoing expiration of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries, other product losses of exclusivity in certain markets, and decreased government purchases of Prevnar in certain emerging markets, among other items.

Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.56 increased 22%, primarily due to the operational decrease of adjusted SI&A and R&D expenses, in increase in other income due primarily to the sale of a portion of our end-licensed generic sterile injectables portfolio to Mylan, a lower effective tax rate on adjusted income, and substantially fewer weighted average shares outstanding due to our continued share repurchases and the impact of the Zoetis exchange offer.

Reported diluted EPS was $0.39, compared with $0.85 in the year-ago quarter, driven by the significant negative impact of the nonrecurrence of income from discontinued operations attributable to the animal health and nutrition businesses, including the gain on the sale of the nutrition business in the year-ago quarter. In addition to the previously mentioned factors, reported diluted EPS was favorably impacted by a lower effective tax rate primarily due to favorable audit settlements, lower charges related to asset impairments and legal matters, and lower acquisition related expenses.

During the fourth quarter, biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets increased 6% operationally, driven primarily by strong volume growth in China, especially for Lipitor. In these BRIC-MT markets, volume growth of 6% was partially offset by foreign exchange of 3% versus the year-ago quarter.

Revenue from all emerging markets increased 9% operationally in the fourth quarter, with China growing approximately 19% operationally. If you exclude the portfolio of products whose rights were transferred to our joint venture in China with Hisun, in the fourth quarter we would have had operational revenue growth of 10% in our overall emerging markets business, 9% in the BRIC-MT markets, and 27% in China compared with the year-ago quarter.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth-quarter revenues by $397 million, or 3%, and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses in the aggregate by $251 million, or 3%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01. As you can see, in 2013 we met or exceeded all components of our financial guidance including exceeding our adjusted diluted EPS guidance.

Now I'd like to comment specifically on a few of the elements of our 2014 guidance. First, we expect adjusted revenues to be in the range of $49.2 billion to $51.2 billion. I want to point out that this range reflects an anticipated $3 billion negative impact due to declining alliance revenues specific to 2014, notably the Enbrel collaboration in North America and the ongoing expiration of the Spiriva collaboration in the US and other developed markets, and the loss exclusivity of certain products in several geographies, including Viagra in the EU, Japan, and Australia, Detrol in the US, and Aricept in major developed markets.

I also want to point out that our 2014 adjusted revenue guidance also reflects an additional $1.4 billion negative impact due to the year-over-year difference in actual foreign exchange rates in mid-January of 2013 compared with mid-January of 2014, mainly driven by the movement of the yen against the US dollar. So had we applied the rates from mid-January of 2013 to our 2014 guidance, the adjusted revenue range would have been $1.4 billion higher.

We expect cost of sales as a percentage of revenue to be in the range of 19% to 20%, an increase from the 18% we recorded in 2013, driven by the significant decrease in alliance revenues. It's important to remember that these alliance revenues were recorded at 100% gross margin because there's no associated cost of sales. Consequently, the significant decrease in these revenues will also negatively impact our cost of sales as a percentage of revenue in 2014.

We expect adjusted SI&A expenses to be in the range of $13.5 billion to $14.5 billion, which reflects spending in support of key product launches as well as the benefit of our continued cost reduction and productivity initiatives. We expect adjusted R&D expenses to be in the range of $6.4 billion to $6.9 billion to support Phase 3 studies initiated in late 2013 and early 2014. We also expect adjusted other deductions to be approximately $100 million.

I want to remind everyone that the recognition of profits from the Enbrel collaboration in North America has shifted from alliance revenue to other income as we have moved to a royalty structure. We expect our tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 27%.

Finally, we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.30. This range includes anticipated share repurchases of approximately $5 billion this year, which will more than offset some expected dilution related to employee compensation programs.

It's important note that our 2014 adjusted diluted EPS guidance absorbs an $0.08 negative impact resulting from the previously mentioned difference and actual foreign exchange rates from mid-January 2013 compared with mid-January 2014. As always, we will continue to monitor foreign exchange fluctuations and we'll update the potential impact, if any, on our 2014 expectations.

So moving on to the key takeaways, we achieved or exceeded all elements of our full year 2013 financial guidance in a continuing challenging environment. In 2013, we completed the separation of our animal health business and created a new commercial structure that we successfully implemented at the beginning of this year. We provided full-year 2014 financial guidance, which reflects the negative impact of $3 billion due to declining alliance revenues and expected product losses of exclusivity.

In addition, our guidance for adjusted R&D expenses reflects our investment in several Phase 3 studies initiated in late 2013 and early 2014. We will continue to mitigate the impact of product losses of exclusivity and declining alliance revenue with growth from certain other products, as well as expense discipline and share repurchases.

We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. In 2013, we repurchased $16.3 billion, or 563 million shares. Overall in 2013, we returned almost $23 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Over the past three years we've returned almost $53 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

And in 2014, we expect to repurchase approximately $5 billion of our common stock. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2014 and beyond. With that, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank, and Ian, as well. With that, Operator, if we could please poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. A couple of questions, please. You've no doubt seen various analyst reports predicting what the financials for the three divisions will look like, and I know you're planning on providing those details on your Q1 call, but can you give us your preliminary thoughts on what you've seen thus far from the street?

Do you think we'll end up being surprised by how the numbers fall out between the different divisions or do you think the analyses you've seen look reasonable? And then on palbociclib, any updated perspective on the likelihood of being able to file on the final Phase 2 results? I know that that day is approaching. I would imagine you've already had some discussions with the agency or at least at a minimum have some thoughts on the matter?

IAN READ: Okay. Thank you, Tim. I'll ask Frank to answer the question that you posed on the financial divisions and when you'll see the results. And then I would ask Albert Bourla to comment on palbo.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So Tim, clearly we've looked at several models that have been put together relative to what the new businesses will look like. I think the rhythm of those numbers is directionally correct is how I would describe it, and obviously we'll come out with our own numbers for our first-quarter 2014 results. But I think directionally correct is how I would describe it. I don't expect that what we publish will create any big surprises.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank.

ALBERT BOURLA, PRESIDENT OF VACCINES, ONCOLOGY, AND CONSUMER HEALTHCARE BUSINESS, PFIZER INC: Tim, on palbo, as you alluded our discussions with FDA are productive and they are ongoing, and this is particularly true given the breakthrough therapy designation we have received from them. Now this discussion will continue after the Phase 2 analysis becomes available. Therefore, the exact regulatory path forward has not yet been determined.

Now having said that, we can envision a scenario where depending upon the strength of the final Phase 2 data, there may be a pathway to file with the FDA based upon this Phase 3 results. However, as you know, the acceptance of any filing is ultimately an FDA decision.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Albert. Next question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Bank of America.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Just sticking with the palbo theme, could you comment on the competitive landscape in light of Novartis and Lilly's progress and what differentiation you could speak to at this early stage? And for Frank, can you talk about -- can you put a little more meat on the bones on the gross margin commentary? What are the drivers for lower gross margin in 2014 and whether those items are trends or blips? Thank you.

IAN READ: So Albert, palbo again.

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, as you are aware there is very limited information in the public domain on these compounds from this company. So it's really difficult to differentiate palbo at this point until we see more clinical efficacy and safety data from them. On palbo on the contrary, we have seen data and we are encouraged by the magnitude of the clinical activity we have seen in our patient population, so we are really looking forward to our final Phase 2 results.

IAN READ: Thank you. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, so on the -- Gregg, on the gross margin, let me walk through this and I'm going to bridge this because I think it will be helpful. So let me run the numbers first. We printed 18% for the full year 2013. We're providing guidance for next year of 19% to 20%. So now let me build a bridge.

If we remove foreign exchange, the positive impact foreign exchange had last year on cost of sales, because it lowered cost of sales, that 18% becomes 18.5%. So 18% to 18.5%. Then if you did the accounting for Enbrel in 2013, the way we're going to do the accounting for it in 2014, which is don't show it as alliance revenues but show it as royalties, that 18.5% would become 19%.

So now 18% became 19%, and then that 19% to 20% in 2014 is really a result of the other alliance revenue declines, primarily Spiriva, and then some of the product LOEs. And one key point to make here is the big decline year in alliance revenues is in 2014, so that's the way to think about the rhythm of the numbers.

IAN READ: Thanks, Frank. Next question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hello, guys. Thanks a lot for taking my question. Also congratulations on a great P&L management in 2014.

IAN READ: Thank you.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: I know a lot of people were nervous about the alliance revenue lines and everything, so well done. I just want to ask a question that you probably get a lot but I thought I'd ask it on a call, and that is, is there a scenario that you can envision, Frank or Ian, where you might sell your established products unit or at least your generics unit in some kind of tax advantaged way prior to 2017?

And then just the only other question I had if I might, is if my calculations are correct, R&D plus SG&A crept up a little bit as a percentage of revenue at the midpoint versus 2013, and I was just wondering I know you're not going to give guidance beyond 2014, but in general should -- are you comfortable with where our analyst models are, or should we expect that trend to continue or is that a 2014 blip? Thanks a lot.

IAN READ: Thank you. I think on the R&D, our R&D spend has been responsive to late Phase 3 assets that we have high confidence and want to invest in, and that's basically where the flex is. I think we will fund where you would expect us to fund the Phase 3 assets to the extent we see great opportunity for them, and we'll continue to do that, but we'll continue to manage our overall P&L as we do that.

On the potential sale of our Established Products Business, we are managing all three businesses to create value for the Company, and I think the immediate focus of this is to get these businesses which have very strong management teams, which they have, to focus on the different ways of delivering value and to drive value for Pfizer shareholders. There are also several sort of data requirements which restrict our ability to enter into new transaction, even assuming if we wanted to at this stage, and I'll ask Frank to talk about that.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, so Mark, let me -- it's a lengthy answer, but let me try to work through this, which is it depends on the type of transaction. So if it's a public transaction, so what's a public transaction? A partial spin, a complete spin, a reverse Morris Trust, a partial IPO, a partial IPO followed by a spin or a split. Three years of audited financials are required. That's a requirement.

If it's a private transaction, a partial sale of the business, a complete sale of the business, the formation of a joint venture where we have a minority interest or where we have a majority interest, no audited financials are required. However, a significance test is required. The results of which may require audited financials.

Let me rip through the significance test. There's three tests that make up the significance test, there's an asset test, an income test, and an investment test. And basically it's the target's results for each of those tests as a percentage of the acquirer's results.

So think about income would be the target's income as a percentage of the acquirer's income. Now the way the results work or the tests work is if all three tests are less than 20%, no audited financials are required. If any one test is greater than 20% and lower than 40%, between 20% and 40%, one year of audited financials is required.

Between 40% and 50%, any one test, two years of audited financials, and any one test greater than 50%, two years of audited balance sheets, three years of audited P&Ls, cash flows, other comprehensive income, and shareholders equity statements, so that's basically what's required and why it's required. That's the summary.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. As you can see, Mark, we have thought some, a lot about this issue, and I would say that the -- we want to create optionality and the best way to create optionality is having strong results and transparency on these results over the next few years and that's what we're focused on.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian, and thanks, Frank, for the detail there. Next question, Operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Just to follow up on that, Ian, if you could talk about the value business, which is what I think we're all focused on here, the Emerging Markets and Established Products Business, that's a huge part of the overall Pfizer story. And while we appreciate that you are going to focus on driving value of each of these businesses, maybe you could talk about how you think about the margin and growth potential of this business, what are the true durable earnings performance that you see from this business?

Because from what we see, the growth of Established Products is really just coming from shifting products that go generic into that business, and then the Emerging Markets piece is obviously very difficult to predict. So maybe if you can sort of provide your view on how you see this business as a standalone performing over the next three years or so?

And then just as a follow up to the breakup scenario, Frank. You said three years of financial audited information is required. So if we're starting to get the data in the first quarter of this year, does that then mean that the earliest you could contemplate a full break up would be end of 2016? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Jami. Well, obviously, as I said, the Established Products Business is not a homogeneous business, it's a heterogeneous business with many different opportunities. And we have a very strong management in all our teams, so I'm going to ask John Young to answer your good questions, though, on how we will manage the Established Business for growth.

And on the last point, I think, yes, we're indicating that we would have three years of financials by the end of 2016.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL ESTABLISHED PHARMA, PFIZER INC: Okay. So thanks for the question, Jami, so maybe just to say a little bit about what this business is. I think, certainly, we believe that this is not only a very large business unit to your point about its contribution to Pfizer overall, but actually a very attractive, a very diverse, and a very profitable business with actually some unique opportunities across different portfolios and geographies.

So let me just walk you through a little bit of what this business really comprises. And broadly, we think of it as in four buckets. There is a peri-LOE business in developed markets that include some of the major brands that currently are pre-LOE, such as Celebrex, Zyvox, Lyrica in the EU. Certainly, we're going to be very focused in that segment on maximizing the profitability of those brands.

Both sides of the LOE spectrum in leveraging some the capability from EP, that we think has really done a pretty good job with some of the recent LOEs, such as Lipitor, compared to market proxies. The second segment of the business is really a legacy EP business that comprises mature off patent products in developed markets. That business is declining, but we're very focused on maximizing profitability through target investments and certain brands in that portfolio that present opportunities for growth.

The third piece of the business is really what comprises probably a little more than 70% of the emerging market today. And that business is growing pretty strongly. You've seen our results from the fourth quarter for the Emerging Market Business overall.

We believe that portfolio, and actually the thick of the mature products and the Global Established Pharma report portfolios, is a great fit actually for a lot of the health care needs that we see in some of the key emerging markets such as China and Brazil and Mexico. That is growing today and we envision that that will continue to grow in the future.

And then the last component of this business really is what we think of as growth opportunities. Now, some of those growth opportunities will be medium-term growth opportunities, such as the biosimilar portfolio. We think we have one of the leading biosimilar portfolios in the industry with five assets in different stages of development.

But we actually have a number of other opportunities, too, through areas of growth such as some of the partnerships that you're already aware of with Teuto, Hisun, Mylan, all of which we're very pleased with and performing well. And we're going to be very active in looking for additional partnerships in targeted markets where we think there's an opportunity to add shareholder value.

Opportunities for continued growth for sterile injectables and some targeted opportunities in certain markets for some reformulated branded generic products, as well. I think probably the last point to make is this is really not a commodity generic business. In fact, less than 10% of our revenues would come from what you traditionally think of as being a generic business.

So it is no doubt that we will see some pressure in revenues over the next few years driven by some the LOEs that everyone is well aware of from some of those big peri-LOE brands. But actually, this is a business where we believe in the medium term that it will plateau and we believe that we can then have a number of significant opportunities for growth with this business in medium to longer term.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Frank, you want to make a comment?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Just real quickly, Jami, just want to punctuate what Ian said which is three years prospective financials as I've said previously. So that would be 2014, 2015, and 2016 financials. And then, obviously, the 2016 10-K wouldn't be done until the end of February of 2017. So actual optionality, if we decided to do so, would be sometime in 2017.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Great, thanks very much. Just staying on the Established Products side, I recognize the near term focus in that business unit is working on the performance, but when you consider the long-term options for that business, first of all would you agree with the statement that this is the division where a larger merger could make the most sense for Pfizer? And following onto that, can you walk through the pros and cons of a larger merger for that division as you consider your options relative to either running the business on your own or looking at tuck in deals?

And then my second question is just as we're thinking about capital deployment, is there any changes in the way you're thinking about share repo versus higher dividend payout or other opportunities in light of the new business structure? Does that change at all of just that you want to either have more cash available as these business units look at their various options as you consider new structures, et cetera, just anything we should be thinking of there? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: So Chris, I think on the Established Products Business our focus is the creation of value, so we do have a quite impressive portfolio and a geographic presence across the emerging markets and your question is will further scale be useful. I think it depends very much on the opportunities that arrive and we'd have to be opportunistic about that.

Clearly, if we can add broader portfolio and specific scale in specific countries would be interested in it, which is why we'd be doing our JVs on a country by country basis, and would be open to overall alternatives, as we always are, that will create shareholder value. But prior to that, we're going to focus right now on running that business, producing the value, and an open to various BD alternatives to create more value.

On the second question, on the capital structure, I think as we've seen in the last three years, our capital structure and the way we manage our capital has been focused on ensuring we produce the best return for our shareholders. We continue to manage that mix, and I would ask Frank to make some more specific comments.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And Chris, I think the short answer is our priorities have not changed. Maybe I'll embellish a little bit. So clearly, on dividends, buybacks continue to remain important parts of our capital allocation. Investing in the business, you see that in 2014 with our capital deployment for R&D, for launch costs in support of our new products.

Obviously business development remains a priority. So priorities haven't changed. And you look at what we did can with our dividend in December, we increased the dividend from $0.96 to $1.04, an 8.3% increase. We just announced another $5 billion in repurchases of our shares. So the priorities have not changed, they remain the same.

IAN READ: I would just add to Frank's comment there, is I think we see ourselves in a position of well balance with optionality and many directions given our capital structure. Thank you, Frank.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you, two questions. First, I believe there is a pending court discussion, so does your 2014 guidance bracket a scenario where generics to Celebrex launch in May of this year, or do the guidance elements not consider the scenario? And the second question is I know FDA was aware of CAPiTA's design very early on, but what discussions have you had with ACIP on the design of CAPiTA and are they comfortable that it did not compare Prevnar to Pneumovax? Thank you very much.

IAN READ: So Doug, do you want to comment on the Celebrex situation?

DOUG LANKLER, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC: Sure. Obviously, so we have our reissued patent on Celebrex that takes us through December 2, 2015, and our trial to defend that patent is scheduled to commence on March 19 of this year.

IAN READ: Frank, you want to add anything to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. That our guidance assumes we have a full year of Celebrex.

IAN READ: Thank you. Albert, on discussions of ACIP?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, as you can imagine, one is we have the results. We will determine the best approach to present the data to ACIP and request a recommendation. We have been in discussions with the CDC and members of ACIP to ensure their understanding of the protocol and the potential outcomes, so when they have the data they can move quickly.

The ACIP meets three times per year. I cannot speculate in which meeting they will make a vote. As regards your question for how would they compare it with Pneumovax, again I cannot speculate on that, but if you look at current practice in immuno-compromised adults, age 19 years and older where there is recommendation, ACIP has recommended routine use of Prevnar 13 administered in addition to Pneumovax.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert.

CHUCK TRIANO: Excellent. Next question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, thank you for taking the questions and congratulations on the performance. I was wondering if you could provide us more color on the powering assumptions for capital and do you believe there's still enough residual disease among US adults given that Prevnar 13 has been available for four years and there is probably significant herd effect?

And finally on palbo, is the Phase 2 sufficiently powered to detect a significant difference, statistically significant survival difference, between the two arms? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you for that question. I believe the CAPiTA design was powered for three end points, and would have been designed well aware of the herd effect, so I'd ask Albert just to talk through the three end points of CAPiTA. And really the response of ACIP will depend on those end points and that's why we have to wait for the trial to read out.

But I believe it was a very well designed trial. Power to achieve, to show the results if the product performs as we expect. And then on the Phase 2, Albert, could you discuss the powering vis-a-vis overall survival?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, well, as we said CAPiTA is a large complex trial. We have 85,000 healthy volunteers and the three end points are a primary end point to demonstrate the efficacy of the product and prevention of first episode of pneumococcal cap community, I call it pneumonia of course for vaccine type. And the secondary points of this to demonstrate the same efficacy in the first episode on non-bacterimic, non-invasive CAP and in invasive pneumococcal disease.

And as we said, the study is very well designed, taking into consideration everything about study was post registration, proposed approval obligation with the FDA, so we have consulted with them for the product.

IAN READ: Thank you. On the Phase 2, do you want to talk to that, Mikael, perhaps?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC: I thought that I'll add one comment on the herd effect that Alex asked about. Actually in 2013, there's been some very useful publication from UK and US that have studied the epidemiology of various pneumococcal strains, and have clearly shown that in the adult, and in particular the older adult population that is highly vulnerable to pneumococcal, there is a number of Prevnar 13 strains still occurring linked to disease.

And actually even Prevnar 7 strains are occurring, so it suggests that the older population is more prone to pick up those strains, and interesting is some strains that are not causing disease in younger population can cause substantial disease in the older population where we also see a substantially increased mobility and also fatal outcomes.

So we do believe that the recent data will favor the view of an existing unmet need in this population. And as Albert alluded to pending the readout of CAPiTA, this would be the only available study of this size that would show any effect in this population.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. You know, it's good questions and good to speculate. We'll know by the end of the quarter and then we can discuss it in more detail. Albert, on the overall survival, palbo?

ALBERT BOURLA: Yes, the data for overall survival is event driven so, therefore, it's difficult to predict when the final overall survival data will be completed. Apparently the study is well powered to catch any differences. We do anticipate preliminary overall survival data that could be presented at the medical conference in the first half of 2014 together with the other data.

IAN READ: Thank you, Albert.

OPERATOR: Thanks, Albert. Next question please, Operator. Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. I just have two. Just on Prevnar 13, you indicated that there is three times the ACIP meets. What's the earliest meeting and have you asked the ACIP yet for to be part of the agenda of any one of those three meetings yet?

And then secondly on palbociclib, if you look at your binding affinity for CDK4 and CDK6, most notably on cyclin D1 and D2, for CDK4 it's 11-nanometer and 9-nanometer. In cyclin D6, IC50 is 15-nanometer, which suggests a high degree of affinity, hence strongly correlated to efficacy. Is there any way you might be able to contrast that to the activity of the Novartis and Lilly compounds?

And then the second part of that question on palbo is there are some off target effects that occur on greater than 30 other kinases. Has the FDA asked you to try and characterize any of those off target effects on palbo? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Prevnar 13, ACIP, I think there are three meetings, one in February, one in June, and one in October. I would find it doubtful we would make the February date, and then when we have the results we will immediately engage with ACIP to see if they can review the results at the earliest point possible, and one would expect there when we used do that would depend on the results in many ways.

Mikael, there was a comment on John's very scientific question there on palbo.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, John, so I mean pressed with your detail that understanding of this kinase inhibitor, and as you very well articulated, we designed an inhibitor that would have potent activity against both kinases, which I do think is somewhat unique for palbociclib.

All kinases have some of target activities, but we do believe that therapeutic window for palbociclib favors the on target profile. And if you look at efficacy and tolerability we've seen so far, the main adverse events related to neutropenia that has been well manageable is very much compatible with on target effect for these type of drugs.

IAN READ: And we don't have enough detail on the competitive approach to make any comparisons, is that correct?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, we tend not to comment on either products and that's why I used the term that our inhibitors are well balanced and has a unique profile in that sense. And I think what at this stage of clinical development, as Albert very well alluded to, we need to understand more from the competitive products as they advance in development.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Mikael. Our next question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.

VAMIL DIVAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, thanks for taking the questions. I have two on the pipeline for palbo, just you started quite a few studies now outside of breast cancer where I think most of the focus has been. Can you just talk at this point where you see palbo having the most potential outside of the lead breast cancer indication?

And then second on the PCSK9, just any comments there? You're going into Phase 3. Obviously, it's a large study, a lot of investment needed there. Given some of the changing guidelines, maybe less of an emphasis on LDL and HDL target levels, how do you see the value of a PCSK9 program and would you consider maybe partnering that with someone just given the amount that you would need to invest there? Thanks.

IAN READ: So, good questions. Palbo, Albert, outside of breast cancer you may want to discuss a little bit of what we're doing there and then Geno will do the PSK9 reply.

ALBERT BOURLA: Vamil, expanding palbo beyond breast cancer is a top priority for us. And given the potential of different size, we are very focused in progressing in other tumor types, as melanoma for example, there is an ongoing Phase 1, 2 study of palbo with Zelboraf. And this is conducted by the National Cancer Institute of France and this is for BRAF mutations.

Also, in addition I'm sure you have seen a recent announcement. We are working with GSK to evaluate palbo with their MAC inhibitor in metastatic melanoma this time without BRAF mutations, and this trial should begin in the first half of the year of 2014. Now if we look beyond melanoma, we are working with academic centers, including the Dana-Farber Cancer Center, to evaluate palbo in non-small cell lung cancer and to have universal other collaborations and programs in other tumor types, including squamous non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer.

IAN READ: Thank you Albert. Mike, I'm sorry, Geno, PCSK9?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL INNOVATIVE PHARMA, PFIZER INC: On PCSK9, we've initiated our Phase 3 program. It's a broad program, as you can imagine, with multiple liquid boring studies, and we've decided to go into two fairly large outcome studies as well with the intent to provide the broadest base of data of any of the PCSK9 programs in the patient populations that we believe can benefit from this therapy.

We believe that outcomes, trials, and the results of the outcome trials are going to determine the place for these agents in management of patients with cardiovascular risk factors and high cholesterol levels. And our programs are designed to read out in a similar time frame of the competitive programs as well. So we're excited about the program, we're often running with our Phase 3 program, and we're at this point going it alone.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. First on palbo, should I assume that in the absence of any significant OS benefit from the Phase 2, you would not file under accelerated approval? And then in addition, you made some comment about the manageability of the neutropenia, should I assume that's still the case, i.e., the profile hasn't changed from the early patient experience?

And then, finally, you attained the rights to both tremelimumab and your anti-CD40 together with use with vaccines. Do you have any vaccines close to entering clinical development in combination with either of these two assets? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Andrew. Look, on palbo, I don't think we can assume anything on the path forward until we see the results and then we will be in conversations with the FDA. And as you say, overall survival is driven, event driven, and may take a longer time, but we'll just have to wait for the results that have in depth discussions with the FDA. Mikael, do you want to talk about the profile, vis-a-vis neutropenia, and also then discuss the tremelimumab and the CD40?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, so the type of profile we have reported, which is very well compatible with what you will see with this type of drug, has been very well manageable in the clinic and seems to be much more tolerable than previous experience with the drugs in used in solid tumors when it relates to hematological suppression. So we feel very comfortable with the profile and look forward, as Ian alluded to, to see the final results.

And clearly, at this stage of development, it's progression pre-survival that will be the dominant end point to look for. In the vaccines area, you were right. We retained use for tremelimumab, particularly I would like to underline that antibody is part of the platform we are exploring together with unique prostate vaccine antigens and a very comprehensive delivery method of the vaccine to boost immune response.

Our initial focus is on prostate cancer and we aspire to be in human studies by 2015. And at that time point, you will actually see a number of Pfizer cancer immunotherapy approaches move forward based on a panel of different monitorable antibodies.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Mikael. Next question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. Good morning. Just a brief question. As you late last year made references to splitting out the units into three different business units, you focused on collagen vaccines claiming that there was the need for laser like focus on these areas because they clearly are growing substantially above the corporate rate.

That's all -- that's clearly understandable. You included consumer at the time. As I seem to recall it was either Frank or you, Ian, made the reference that it was because the manager of the consumer business would then be the manager of both. Now that Albert is head of that, does it not now make sense that consumer would be split apart, again because of this laser like focus on vaccines and oncology? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you, Tony. I think the structure is important but not overriding. What's overriding is having really good leaders running the oncology and the vaccine business, having transparency on their results, having somebody good running consumer, and then having an overall President who has done tremendously good work in the Established Products in the value business and somebody who is a seasoned leader. So I don't think it's important, vis-a-vis my small tweaks in the structure because of changes or leaders, but thank you for the question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Next question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK PARTNERS: Thanks a lot and thanks for the questions. And Frank, thank you for the incredible detail on the P&L structures, that was great. But separately on you mentioned the staph aureus showing some preliminary evidence of efficacy.

Can you just give us maybe a little bit of color as to what you were looking for in terms of the quality of the immune response? Should we anticipate some threshold of real evidence of oxidizing antibodies actually showing since it's my understanding that that's what's necessary to really eradicate or fight the disease?

And then separately, as we think about some of the products in earlier stages of development, would you mind just maybe giving us a little bit of color as to the products in Phase 2, outside of the products that were mentioned on the call today, that might be particularly exciting, particularly as we think about the prospect for combinations in your cancer portfolio? Thanks a lot.

IAN READ: Okay. Thank you. Really good question. So Mikael, you're a popular man today.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Okay. So thank you very much for your interest in staph aureus vaccine. That's based on some very serious science that we invested in over the last couple of years. And we identified four different antigens and both polysaccharide and proteins that we have shown at least at a high level of antibodies in the H-relevant individuals. And as you discussed, these induced antibodies will both induce what you call oxidation, clearance of the antibody by the immune system.

But also they will interfere with the bacterial function, which is based on some unique science that we have done for this particular vaccine. We saw very nice levels of induced antibodies rapid onset, with really the profile you would like to see before you vaccinate individuals to go into a surgical environment where there may be threatened with difficult infection. And I would like to underline that the antibodies cross-react with a large majority of staph aureus strains, including the multi-resistant strains that can cause devastating outcome of hospitalization.

So we are very encouraged by the data and we've shared it with both European and US regulators, and we are now in dialogues around the phase to be started that we will invest in to show event reduction of infection in a presurgical population. Concerning your interest in our Phase 2 pipeline, I would like to underline that we have a rich pipeline with a lot of momentum behind a kind of near term excitement around palbociclib, an adult vaccine.

Just a few highlights. We have started multiple Phase 2 for our smoothing inhibitor in blood cancers and related blood disorders, an area that we are very excited about. And we're also moving a gamma-secretase inhibitor into triple negative breast cancer where we have seen some very interesting and favorable profiles so far.

In the Xalkori space, we are now dosing patients with a full on drug that is targeting all known mutations and we think can have a very exciting profile. We've already moved one antibody drug conjugate into the clinic and we have several more that would move into the clinic this year.

In inflammation immunology, we have readouts in this year of our best-in-class IL-6 antibody across numerous immune conditions, similar for our MAdCAM antibody, and also for our small molecule disassociated glucocorticoid receptor.

And then in vaccine, we also have noticed favorable Phase 1b data with clostridium difficile and moving forward with one of our formulations towards Phase 2 initiation this year.

And Ian alluded briefly in his introductory remark to some extended work we're doing into renal diseases where we have seen positive Phase 2a data of our novel PD5 inhibitor.

We also moved a second drug, a CCR-25 dual inhibitor into diabetic nephropathy and diabetic macular edema, underlining the important opportunity medical and commercial we see in this disease.

And you may also noted some other highlights including a dual acting inhibitor of uric acid for gout therapy that we recently acquired through a licensing agreement with Kissei.

So I think you will continue to see great momentums with internal and external partnership in this area. Thank you for your interest.

IAN READ: Thank you, and of course on top of that we do have the Phase 3 Xeljanz data coming out and meningitis B. And so I think it's a strong pipeline across all phases. Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Frank, I appreciated all the detail that you provided. I just wanted to follow up though. Some potential acquirers of the Established Products Business have implied or suggested that Pfizer can indeed retroactively audit going backwards, and so could you just sort of settle the debate?

Could you talk about why Pfizer cannot retroactively audit going backwards and just explain whether there's any gray area there? That would be great, thanks so much.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So Dave, I mentioned before that three years audited financials and I used the word prospective. The reason I use the word prospective was if not prospective, then it would have to be some portion of retrospective.

Remember, if you're doing something retrospectively it's not just an income statement. It's also a balance sheet. It's a cash flow statement. And these are businesses that in their new construct didn't exist previously to 2014, so it's the complexity involved in their not existing and the full suite of financial statements required, which is why I said prospectively.

IAN READ: Thanks, Frank.

CHUCK TRIANO: And our last question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Damien Conover from Morningstar.

DAMIEN CONOVER, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Great, thanks for taking the questions. Just two quick questions. First on Eliquis, the Lancet in December published a meta analysis that looked at the different anticoagulants and really showed little differentiation among them, obviously better than Warfarin. But I wanted to get your sense of the marketing effort and if you're finding ways to market Eliquis and get a better response over Xarelto and Pradaxa?

And secondly, just a question on the potential breakup of the Company. If you look forward to patent losses beyond the breakup, just trying to get an understanding of how assets might stay within companies or shift companies? For example, with Lyrica I think the patent loss is 2019, how would something like that -- would that stay with the branded Company or would it shift to the established Company, and just trying to get a sense of how that strategy might play out? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you. So, I'll take that second question first and then ask Geno to comment on the differentiation and the confidence one can have in meta analysis and compared to randomized perfected trials.

So look, I think the way you see we've set up our divisions now and the sort of transfer of assets is probably similar to what we would do if there was a separation, but it would depend upon what type of separation it was, and clearly you'd have to operate to maximize the value, initially to Pfizer's shareholders at that time, and then there would be commercial considerations on how you ensure that continuing LOEs get well managed by an organization that is capable to maximize it.

So I think your question is a little hypothetical at this time without knowing exactly how we would, if with do, do any type of breakup or separation. Whether it would be selling to another company or a spin, that would clearly change the nature of the transactions et cetera, et cetera. So in all cases, we would be focused on doing what was right for our shareholders and then ensuring maximum value. Geno, do you want to add any comments on?

GENO GERMANO: Yes, just a comment on our data sets. I mean, our Eliquis data set is really an outstanding data set, a randomized prospective controlled clinical trial demonstrating superiority across three important efficacy and safety end points. It's a extremely strong database and, frankly, having randomized trials with those results is the strongest form of evidence that we could possibly have.

What we're doing with that that's really helping us in a competitive field is taking it to, frankly, the clinicians that can understand and appreciate the data the best, and that's the specialists, the cardiologists. We've increased substantially our medical education, our focus on the cardiologists, and as a result we've seen a nice response.

In fact, we use as a leader indicator new to brand prescriptions and we're watching new to brand prescriptions. This is prescriptions where the patient is getting a new brand. And across all of the business we're now over 25%, and among cardiologists we're about 30%, and we've surpassed Pradaxa and we're growing at a more rapid rate than Xarelto.

So we think we've got good momentum going here and it's on the back of the excellent data set we have.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. And thank you this morning for everyone's attention. Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So long, everybody. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the Pfizer's fourth-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c133 : Patents | c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140130ea1s002jq
  


 HD
 Q3  2013  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,563 words
   PD
29 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP, IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning. And thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's third-quarter 2013 performance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for our Consumer Business; and John Young, President and General Manager of Primary Care. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance, third quarter 2013, located in the investor presentation section at the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements, and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K, and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The discussions during this call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, October 29, 2013.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck. I will begin with some comments on the quarter. Overall, we delivered good operational performance, generated solid financial results, and continued to see steady progress with many of our inline products and pipeline assets. Operationally, revenues for the Oncology business grew 26%, due to the continued strong performance of new products, primarily Inlyta and Xalkori. We also had another strong quarter operationally from Lyrica, which grew 11%, and from Celebrex which grew 13%. Despite macro economic and other factors, the Emerging Markets business grew 5% operationally, primarily due to volume growth for key products in the Primary Care area, such as Lipitor, Norvasc, Lyrica and Celebrex, especially in China. We still anticipate achieving mid single-digit growth in emerging markets for the year.

Turning to an update on our recently launched and approved products and pipeline assets, earlier this month, we received FDA approval of Duavee, our novel combination therapy for the treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause, and the prevention of post-menopausal osteoporosis. And we anticipate launching this product in the US during the first quarter of next year.

We and our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb continue to focus on improving the performance and physician uptake for Eliquis. In the US, we have seen positive momentum in the week-over-week growth in total prescriptions. And in late September, we launched our direct-to-consumer television advertising campaign. Eliquis also has been launched for stroke prevention and atrial fibrillation in several additional markets including Australia, Spain and Canada, where reimbursement has been established. We also see potential expansion opportunities for Eliquis with additional indications. With Bristol-Myers we submitted an sNDA in the US for VTE prevention in patients undergoing orthopedic surgery.

Turning to Xeljanz, we are pleased with the progress of the launch in the US and various other markets, which continues to be in line with our expectations, particularly in the context of being part of a large, but slow-growth segment within the anti-TNF market. We're seeing a steady increase in prescriptions. Comparing the third quarter with the second quarter of this year, we saw a 53% sequential growth in total prescription volume in the US. Overall, the physician's feedback on Xeljanz has been very positive. Satisfaction amongst users is high. In fact, nearly 3,000 healthcare providers have provided Xeljanz, and over 75% have been repeat prescribers.

We know that before prescribing, rheumatologists want to have a deep knowledge and confidence in Xeljanz's safety profile and clinical experience, particularly given it is a first-in-class product. To date, the vast majority of physicians have reacted favorably to Xeljanz's clinical profile. And we are focusing our efforts on continuing to educate physicians on Xeljanz's clinical data.

We also have several Phase 3 programs under way for Xeljanz. The Phase 3 program in psoriasis is progressing and is one of the largest global clinical trial programs in moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis to date. There are five studies in the program. Earlier this month, we announced the top-line results from the first two studies, which provided information consistent with our expectations based on the Phase 2 data in psoriasis. The other three studies in the Phase 3 psoriasis program include two pivotal studies and a long-term extension study. We anticipate top-line results for the pivotal trials in the second quarter 2014. And, we will issue a top-line data release after we've received and reviewed the results.

We have initiated a Phase 3 program to evaluate Xeljanz for the treatment of patients with active psoriatic arthritis, which includes two pivotal trials that evaluate the safety and efficacy of Xeljanz, and one long-term extension study. The first data from these trials is anticipated in 2015. And we continue to study Xeljanz for other important inflammatory diseases, with several Phase 2 and Phase 3 programs ongoing. This includes a Phase 3 program in ulcerative colitis and a Phase 2 program in Crohn's disease, ankylosing spondylitis and a topical formulation for psoriasis. We are also moving forward with a once-a-day modified release program for Xeljanz in RA. The FDA recently agreed that a Phase 3 study is not necessary for the once daily dose. And we plan to file a new drug application with the FDA in 2015.

Beyond the Xeljanz and Eliquis Phase 3 programs, we have or will be initiating several Phase 3 studies and we will be reporting on clinical trial data results from our Primary Care, Vaccines and Oncology portfolios. I continue to be pleased with the steps we have taken and the progress we are making towards improving our R&D performance.

Looking at the Primary Care pipeline, there are several promising candidates. This month, we are initiating a Phase 3 program for bococizumab, the proposed generic name for RN316, our PCSK9 monoclonal antibody to lower LDL cholesterol. This is a global program that includes multiple lipid-lowering studies, as well as two cardiovascular outcome studies in more than 22,000 patients. Compared to the PCSK9 inhibitor Phase 3 cardiovascular outcome trials being conducted by our competitors, only our bococizumab Phase 3 program includes a dedicated cardiovascular outcome study in patients who cannot achieve LDL levels lower than 100 mg per DL, despite the use of statins. This is a very high risk patient population with significant unmet need who represent a tremendous cost to our healthcare system.

Our second Phase 3 outcomes trial will address whether driving LDL cholesterol levels well below current guideline-recommended targets will lead to a further reduction in cardiovascular events. Importantly, compared to other programs, our Phase 3 program includes the broadest risk of high-risk patients in need of improved cholesterol management. We are currently completing the final analysis of the data sets of our completed Phase 2b study, and plan to present the results in a presentation at the American College of Cardiology meeting in March 2014.

We are planning to continue development of tanezumab for the treatment of osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain, and cancer pain. We have just entered into a collaboration agreement with Eli Lilly & Company to jointly develop and globally commercialize tanezumab, which provides that, in addition to certain potential milestone payments to Pfizer, Pfizer and Lilly will equally share product development expenses and potential revenues and certain product-related costs. The tanezumab program is currently subject to a partial clinical hold by the FDA pending submission of nonclinical data to the FDA, which we anticipate submitting in the first half of 2014. In addition, we are initiating a Phase 3 program with our partner Merck for ertugliflozin, our SGLT2 inhibitor for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.

Turning to vaccines, we expect to have data readouts in three disease areas -- pneumococcal pneumonia in adults, meningitis B, and staph aureus. For pneumococcal pneumonia, the case accrual and CAPiTA trial involving Prevnar 13 adult has been completed. The processing of the cases will take several months to complete and we have not yet seen the data. We expect a read-out of the top-line results early in 2014.

For meningitis B, we anticipate sharing results of the Phase 2 study data in adolescents and young adults, who are the major carriers of this disease, at a key medical congress in the first half of 2014. Of note, our vaccine contains two protein components which elicit a broad immune response against the majority of meningitis B vaccine strains in these immunized individuals. We are encouraged by the efficacy and tolerability data we have seen to date. And have already initiated a pivotal Phase 3 clinical development program that includes Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials that will include more than 20,000 participants. If trial enrollment and recruiting goes as planned, data from this program are expected in the next several years.

For staph aureus, we recently included a Phase 2a study which showed encouraging signals that our vaccine elicits positive immune response. The next step is to move into a Phase 2b study in surgical patients. We anticipate sharing results from the Phase 2a study in the first half of 2014 at a key medical congress.

In oncology, we also anticipate several readouts in 2014. In breast cancer, we expect the final efficacy and safety data from the Phase 2 palbociclib study to read-out in early 2014 to be presented at ASCO in June of 2014 or at another congress next year. We have initiated two Phase 3 studies of palbociclib. One study mimics the trial design of the Phase 2 study in patients with post-menopausal ER positive HER2 negative advanced breast cancer, which has a planned enrollment of 450 patients. The other study is in patients with hormone receptor positive, HR positive and HER2 negative advanced recurrent breast cancer. It compares fulvestrant plus palbociclib to fulvestrant plus placebo. In addition, we expect to start a Phase 3 study for palbociclib in the next few months in early breast cancer for high-risk patients after neoadjuvant treatment.

For non small cell lung cancer, we are expecting top-line results from two Phase 3 studies of dacomitinib in the early part of next year.

We have five programs in various stages to develop biosimilars of innovator products. Our development program includes biosimilars for Herceptin, which is scheduled to start Phase 3 in the next few months. In addition, we have a biosimilar development program for Rituxan, Remicade and Humira that are scheduled for Phase 3 starts next year. And, our biosimilar for Avastin will begin Phase 1 next year.

The ongoing R&D investment level to support our late-stage pipeline opportunities is warranted by the significant revenue potential associated with these programs. And we expect that as these programs further progress, some incremental R&D investment will be necessary. That said, we will balance this need with overall shareholder return. And we will continue to be opportunistic regarding additional internal and externally sourced compounds that can further enhance our research pipeline.

I will close with a few words about the new commercial structure we have announced last quarter. We have been aligning talent, assets and individual reporting systems to support our new operating structure. We remain on track for commencing operations in the new structure at the start of 2014, and for providing a 2014 baseline management view of profit and loss for each business, starting with our financial results for the first quarter of 2014.

In summary, I believe we are making steady progress across the business, by enhancing the quality of the pipeline, demonstrating fiscal discipline in how we deploy our capital, and executing on our business plans in order to drive greater value for our shareholders. Now, I will turn it over to Frank to take you through the details of the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. I want to remind everybody that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24 of this year, the financial results of the Animal Health business are reported as a discontinued operation in the condensed consolidated statements of income for year-to-date 2013 and third-quarter and year-to-date 2012. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. Now let's move on to the financials.

Third-quarter 2013 reported revenues of approximately $12.6 billion, decreased 2% year-over-year, reflecting a 2% negative impact from foreign exchange. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, revenues decreased operationally by $38 million, or less than 1%, primarily due to the negative impact of the continued erosion of branded Lipitor in the US, developed Europe and certain other markets; the ongoing expiration of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries; a decrease in government purchases of Prevnar and Enbrel in certain emerging markets; and the loss of exclusivity of certain other products, including Lyrica in Canada in February 2013, and Viagra in most major markets in Europe in June 2013. These were partially offset by the growth of certain inline products, including Lyrica, Enbrel, Inlyta and Xalkori globally, and Celebrex and Xeljanz in the US. I want to point out that reported revenue has also included $67 million from transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis, which are expected to continue for approximately two years.

Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.58 increased 16%, primarily due to the aggregate decrease in adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A, and adjusted R&D expenses of $341 million, or 5%, due to the benefit of our ongoing cost reduction and productivity initiatives, the nonrecurrence of the $250 million payment in the year-ago quarter for the acquisition of the exclusive over-the-counter rights to Nexium, which was included in R&D expenses, as well as the favorable impact of foreign exchange on these items of $166 million, or 2%. These were partially offset by higher SI&A spending to support new product launches. In addition, there were fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, due to our ongoing share repurchase program, and the first full quarter impact of the Zoetis exchange offer, which also favorably impacted adjusted diluted EPS.

Reported diluted EPS was $0.39, versus $0.43 in the year-ago quarter and favorably impacted primarily by lower legal charges, lower acquisition-related and other costs, and fewer shares outstanding which were more than offset by the loss of exclusivity of certain products, lower income from discontinued operations, and a higher effective tax rate.

During the third quarter, biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets increased 2% operationally, driven primarily by strong volume growth in China, especially for Lipitor. In these BRIC-MT markets, volume growth of 3% was partially offset by price reductions of 1%. Revenue from all emerging markets increased 5% operationally in the third quarter. If you exclude the portfolio of products whose rights were transferred to our joint venture in China with Hisun in the third quarter, we would have had operational revenue growth compared to the third quarter of 2012 of 6% in our Emerging Markets business, 4% in the BRIC-MT markets, and 16% in China.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted third-quarter adjusted revenues by 2%, or $271 million. And had a positive impact of 2%, or $166 million, on the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted third-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01 compared to the year-ago quarter.

Now, moving on to our 2013 financial guidance, based on our year-to-date performance and outlook for the remainder of the year, we are narrowing the ranges for certain components of our full-year 2013 financial guidance. We are narrowing the adjusted revenue range to $50.8 billion to $51.8 billion, from $50.8 billion to $52.8 billion. I want to remind everyone that beginning on November 1, 2013, we enter into the 36-month sunset period in the collaboration agreement with Amgen for Enbrel in the US and Canada. During this period, we expect that our share of the Enbrel collaboration, which is high margin because there is no associated cost of goods sold, will decline significantly. In addition, going forward, the recognition of profits from the Enbrel collaboration will shift from Alliance Revenue to Other Income, as we move to a royalty structure. Furthermore, these royalty payments will be much less than our current level of Enbrel profits. Outside of the US and Canada, however, our exclusive rights to Enbrel will continue in perpetuity.

I also want to point out that our Spiriva collaboration, which is also recorded in Alliance Revenue, will continue to wind down during the fourth quarter 2013, and 2014, most notably in the US and Japan. Currently, the majority of Alliance Revenue is composed of Enbrel in the US and Canada, as well as Spiriva.

Moving on to Adjusted Cost of Goods Sold as a percentage of Revenues, we are narrowing this range to 18% to 18.5%. We are narrowing our Adjusted SI&A expense range to $14.2 billion to $14.7 billion, while continuing to absorb launch costs in support of new products. We are narrowing our R&D guidance range to $6.3 billion to $6.6 billion, which will support our high-potential late-stage pipeline opportunities. We now expect Other Deductions to be approximately $400 million. And continue to expect the Effective Tax Rate on Adjusted Income to be approximately 28%. We are narrowing and lowering the Reported Diluted EPS range to $3.05 to $3.15. And we are narrowing our Adjusted Diluted EPS range to $2.15 to $2.20 from $2.10 to $2.20.

Now moving on to key take-aways, third-quarter results continue to reflect the loss of exclusivity of certain products in various geographies, as well as the ongoing volatility in emerging markets. We continue to expect full-year operational revenue growth in our Emerging Markets business to be in the mid-single-digit percentage range. In addition, we continue to mitigate the earnings impact of product LOEs with both expense discipline and share repurchases. We narrowed the ranges for certain components of our Adjusted financial guidance. Our recently launched products are progressing at a measured and steady pace. We're advancing initiatives internally so that we will implement our new commercial structure at the start of 2014. We remain excited about our high-potential, late-stage pipeline assets. And expect to allocate R&D investments to support their advancement, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, or early 2014.

Finally, we continue to create shareholder value through the prudent allocation of our capital. To date in 2013, we have repurchased approximately $13.1 billion, or approximately 46.2 million shares. We expect to expect to repurchase in the mid-teens of billions of dollars of our common stock this year. As a result, we expect to return more than $20 billion to our shareholders this year between buybacks and dividends. In addition, we expect the first quarter 2014 dividend level to be set by our Board of Directors during our December Board meeting. And finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2013 and beyond.

Now, I will turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. And, operator, please, if we could now poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Gregg Gilbert of Bank of America.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks a lot. To the extent that there are a couple of other PCSK9s out there, can you talk about what you needed to see in Phase 2 to make this large investment? And potentially how your product is differentiated, beyond the clinical trial differences you highlighted? And, secondly, Ian, curious how you think the collaboration in Japan is going with Mylan and whether you think that could be a good model in other places or more broadly. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Gregg. Clearly, we have seen in the Phase 2 data sufficient quality of data to encourage us to enter into Phase 3 and believe we have a highly competitive product. So I would ask John Young to give more details on that, and also discuss the Mylan collaboration.

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT AND GM PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Gregg. So let me take PCSK9. Our focus is, first of all, we think we actually have a great antibody which came out of our Rinat labs in San Francisco. And I think, in addition to having excellent substrate to take into clinical development, we also believe that we have been able to put together a differentiated, or potentially differentiated, clinical program. So, our program will be the only program investigating both high-risk primary and secondary prevention populations. And when we begin to look at the program in more detail, it includes a dedicated CV outcome study in patients who can't achieve LDL levels lower than 100 milligrams per deciliter despite the use of statins. It is a very high-risk patient population with a lot of unmet medical need. And those patients, as you heard from Ian, really do represent tremendous costs to the healthcare system. So, positive outcome in that population, we believe, will be very significant. And we also combine in our program a second Phase 3 outcomes trial that will address whether driving LDL levels to well below current guideline-recommended targets will lead to further reduction in cardiovascular events.

And I think, lastly, the point to make is that, importantly, compared to other programs, our Phase 3 program includes the broadest range of high-risk patients in need of improved cholesterol management. And, as I said, uniquely includes both high-risk primary and secondary prevention patients. So, overall we believe that the combination of good basic substrate and the antibody, combined with a clinical program that we believe has the potential to demonstrate real differentiation across patient populations with significant unmet needs, will enable us to bring a very competitive profile into what is clearly a potentially very attractive and promising marketplace.

In terms of Mylan, we continue to make positive progress with Mylan in Japan. The collaboration is on track. Currently, we're selling around, about 250 products from the combined companies' generic portfolios. The transition integration of all 200 Mylan succondees to the Pfizer organization has been completed. And we've completed the launch of the collaboration's first generic pipeline products in June. Based on the initial performance, all nine products are forecasted to meet or exceed our full-year plans. So, let me just finish on Mylan and say that we are extremely pleased with the progress that we have made and we are going to look to maintain that momentum into 2014.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. I would add that we are also very comfortable and pleased with the quality of the partnership with Mylan.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. This is either for Ian or John. I'm just wondering if you could talk about how you plan to monetize the Value business. Just how do you see this business growing? What are the opportunities on the table that will help to unlock value? And are one of those opportunities to sell the business? And if so, is there a time limit? Do you have to wait a certain amount of time? I know that you have talked about the other businesses, if you were to spin them up, spin them out, you would have to wait three years. But is there a similar limit if you were to sell this business? Would you sell part of it? And, also, if you were to sell it, would you be willing to accept someone else's stock in exchange for it? And a follow-up question on PCSK9, your competitors are not planning on getting -- I don't believe, large outcomes trials to gain FDA approval. Do you feel that you need these outcomes trials for approval or is this just to broaden your label and for further differentiation? Thanks.

IAN READ: Jami, thank you for those questions. On PCSK9, I will ask John to comment on that first. But I think the issue is, in this marketplace, our trials are constructed so as to be able to demonstrate value to society and payers. John, do you want to add anything more to that?

JOHN YOUNG: Yes, I think in terms of the program, as I've already said, we believe we've put together a really robust and potentially differentiated program. Clearly, we know that LDL-C is a very well-established surrogate for cardiovascular risk. But certainly we know from dialogue and discussion we've had with the FDA that it is conceivable that regulators may require demonstration of a beneficial effect on CV events before approving a new class of agents such as PCSK9 inhibitors. At a minimum, robust LDL-C lowering, along with a comprehensive long-term safety database, will likely be required for differential approval of bococizumab and potentially of other medicines in the class, as well. And the bococizumab Phase 3 program is designed to address the potential for regulatory authorities to require, in addition to LDL-C lowering, a -- robust long-term clinical safety database and cardiovascular outcomes data for approval.

IAN READ: Mikael, do you want to add anything vis-a-vis the development of PCSK9 from a technical point of view?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Yes. We have put in a lot of technical capabilities, how to develop antibodies, with the most potent and biopharmaceutically appropriate characteristics. And when you look at the class, I think you can see emerging data suggesting some of the antibodies being very potent, and some being intermediate. And as Ian alluded to, we were very encouraged by the potent effect of our antibody in Phase 2 and its really robust LDL lowering, tolerability and low frequency of anti-drug antibody.

IAN READ: Thank you. And Jami, on your questions on the Value -- or, we call it, Established Products business unit -- right now we're focused on setting up the new organizational model where we have two Innovative businesses and one Established business. You know we're doing that because we firmly believe those businesses have different characteristics, and we want management uniquely focused on maximizing the growth opportunities of those businesses. So, John, who is running that part of the business, will clearly be looking at how to maximize the growth in the emerging markets, how to maximize our supply chain advantages in the developed markets, what growth opportunities there are in sterile injectables, either organically or inorganically, are there other BD activities that can be undertaken in that business such as 505(b) filings. And, frankly, it is simply too early to speculate on the future developments of those business. Right now, as an organization, we are focused on getting them up and running, the management up and running, in place, looking at all of the different growth opportunities I just discussed, looking at supply chain. And once those businesses are up and running, and once there is transparency, then we will see how the market evaluates the sum of the parts of those businesses.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Great. Thanks very much. Just following up on that, Ian, how long, do you think, are you going to want to see these three business units running separately before you will be comfortable and in a position to evaluate and make that decision on the next steps for Pfizer with regards to the strategic alternatives for your portfolio of businesses? Is that something that's going to take a year? Is it something longer? I'm thinking that next year is about setting them up. As we go out to '15, is that a time frame where it is reasonable to think about a decision on some of these? The second question I had, and similarly following up on Jami's question, if you were to decide that the Value core was something that made sense to separate from Pfizer, are there structures that would allow you to do that prior to 2017, if that's the right decision? Or is that something that's unreasonable to think about from a timing perspective. I am just trying to get some clarity on the timing if, in fact you went that direction with the business. Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you, Chris. I don't have a fixed time line in my mind. Right now, we are really focused on the operational aspect, unless -- you know, the value of these businesses will come from their exquisite execution and management making them valuable by focusing on growth. And as that occurs, we will evaluate our options in a timely manner. And I'll ask Frank to comment on the actual mechanics of any type of transaction.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, Chris, the way to think about that is, I will call it public transactions versus private transactions. In a public transaction, three years of audited financials are required. So, think about three years prospectively of audited financials. In a private transaction, a sale of a partial business, of an entire business, of some sort of a joint venture, in anything like that, it depends on a significance test. And there are three elements to the significance test. There is an asset test, an income test, and an investment test. And what really drives the requirement there for audited financials is, based on the size of the acquirer, and then the income, the assets, and the investment of what is being acquired compared to the acquirer's income, investments, and assets. And that can range anywhere from zero in terms of audited financials to up to three years. So that is really what will drive the audited financial requirements. But, once again, to punctuate what Ian said, what we're all about doing is getting these businesses to operationally hum and execute with excellence.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. Two questions, please, if I could just go back to the split-up. Can you better characterize the possibility that Pfizer does not split itself up, in the complete sense of the word? You previously alluded to the idea that if the market appropriately revalues Pfizer, once they better appreciate the financials for those different divisions, that perhaps a full split-up would not be necessary. So my question is, is it reasonable possible that you don't fully split up? And then on palbociclib, when might we start to see data in non breast cancers? It seems like you should either have data in hand already or you should very closely have it in hand on tumor types in the blood cancer area, in colorectal and in lung. And can you say so far that you haven't had any failures in any of these other tumor types?

IAN READ: Thank you, Tim. This issue of split is totally dictated by what our view will be on how to maximize shareholder value at the appropriate time. So, when these businesses are operating, when there is transparency for analysts, when they have had time to establish a track record, then we will look at that and we will make decisions based on how best to maximize the value to shareholders, irrespective of size or composition or structure of residual companies. Because this management team is focused on producing shareholder value. And that is how we will take the decision. And I don't really think I can add anything more than that, other than to say that our guiding star is how to create shareholder value. Geno, would you like to talk about palbo?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT & GM SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC.: Sure. Tim, let me just comment that our highest priority is to efficiently advance our breast cancer program right now with palbociclib. As Ian mentioned, we have initiated two of the Phase 3 trials. We will initiate another Phase 3 trial in breast cancer this year. And, frankly, we are looking at other breast cancer populations to explore further, as well. We're firmly in the lead here and we're really excited by the data. And this is our highest property. Notwithstanding that statement, we are exploring the use of palbo in a number of other tumor types, as you said, including melanoma and lung cancer, et cetera. These are primarily Phase 1 level studies, and we're not reporting any data at this point.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thank you very much for taking my question. If I could turn back to the PCSK9s, if I may. Might you help us out with a timeline for the completion of the outcomes trials and let us know if there are opportunities in those trials for early stoppage based on interim results? And then could you also tell us what the dosing that is being used in the trial? Is it once a month, twice a month, et cetera? And then on CAPiTA, if I might, can you just walk us through the steps that need to occur after you see the CAPiTA data to ensure that sales pick up? I know you have to wait for certain recommendations, certain bodies, I wonder if you could just walk us through that. And is there a scenario where that trial misses statistical significance on its primary endpoint, Mikael, but that trends are robust enough that you could still see a recommendation coming out of the relevant bodies? Or do you really think you need to show statistical significance? Sorry for my long-winded question. Thank you.

IAN READ: John, if you could talk a little bit about PCSK9 again, bococizumab, and then we will hand it over to, I think, Geno for the commentary on the CAPiTA.

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks, Mark. Obviously, it is fair to say that all of the PCSK9 programs are in relatively early stages of their clinical development. And, as I mentioned in answer to an earlier question, one of the things that all of the programs, including ours, will have to be determined, is the data sets as they emerge, and what will be required for approval. That is something that we'll continue to have dialogue with the agency about. So, I think it is really premature to determine if there is any interim readout of data that would lead to an earlier approval, either a lipid-lowering indication or of the outcome indication. Mark, can you remind me of the second part of your question?

MARK SCHOENEBAUM: Dosing.

JOHN YOUNG: In terms of dosing, okay. The dosing schedule that we are taking into our clinical program is a twice-a-month dosing schedule. As you heard already from Mikael, we will be presenting the results of our Phase 2b study early next year. And from the analysis that we have done of that data so far, although it is incomplete at this point, but certainly we believe that that twice-a-month dosing schedule actually provides, really, the optimal consistent cholesterol-lowering rate across the dosage interval in order to obtain the optimal clinical effect and ideally the optimal clinical outcomes. So we feel really positive among the twice-a-month dosing schedule being the optimal dosing schedule for bococizumab.

IAN READ: That being said, Mikael, do you want to add on something about the technology that we're excited about there?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, to build on the excellent way in which John described our PSCK9 clinical strategy, it is a really well-behaving antibody. The twice-monthly administration schedule is the logical next step, as John described. However, we think that as part of a potential life cycle management strategy, there are opportunities to also explore once-monthly schedule. That may include the use of technology such as the Halozyme technology, for which we have an exclusive license within the PCSK9 class. And we are now performing early tests on the suitability of that technology to extend half life and also lower the volume that you need to inject. The antibody itself at the high dose has the potential for once-a-month, but we would rather see a technology like this to give a really convenient opportunity. So, as you can see, as we go forward with twice monthly, we have a life cycle management potential to offer additional regimens.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. And Geno, CAPiTA?

GENO GERMANO: Sure. With regard to the steps for CAPiTA, as we have indicated, we have completed accumulation of the required number of events. We're in the process now of finalizing the analysis of those events and completing the data management associated with creating our top-line results. And we are, at the same time, in discussions with the CDC and members of the ACIP, and the pneumococcal working group to ensure their understanding of the protocol and the potential outcomes, so that when we have the data, they can move on the data rapidly. So, we're in ongoing discussions with them -- and this is obviously in the United States -- so when the data is available, the working group will be exposed to the data, and will do their grading process and prepare for bringing those data and their assessment to the formal ACIP committee. The ACIP committee meets three times a year -- in February, in June, and in October. It is unlikely that we will have data available for the February meeting. But we are targeting the June meeting. It could occur in June or it could occur in October. So that is the US situation.

Ex-US, in most cases we don't have the pneumonia indication in most ex-US markets. Therefore, the CAPiTA trial results will form the basis for the pneumonia indication and we will file those applications. And depending upon the review times, we would expect to see the pneumonia indication appear in the 12- to 14-month time frame beyond those filings. So, hopefully that gives you some sense of the steps and the timing associated with CAPiTA. With regard to the outcomes, there are multiple end points including vaccine type, non bacteremic pneumonia, vaccine type, all-cause pneumonia -- or vaccine type pneumonia -- and invasive pneumococcal disease. There are a number of different scenarios that can play out depending upon the outcomes. Obviously we're targeting the most favorable outcome, which would be demonstration of effect, positive effect, on prevention of vaccine-type non bacteremic pneumonia.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman from UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: A couple of things. First, can you help us quantify the impact of these government purchases for Prevnar and Enbrel, with the lumpiness there, and how that is going to impact the next quarter? Second, in China, it looks like the growth continues very strongly there. Why are you not having the problems that some of the other players are having there? Can you just talk about the dynamics? Or maybe it is impacting you, and the growth would have been even better? And then, Geno, maybe you can just talk about some of the dynamics of the new oncology drugs that have launched and what is happening there and how those ramps are going. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Marc. If I understood the question, you would like to understand some of the seasonality or lumpiness in government purchases of Enbrel and Prevnar. So, perhaps, if John can talk about that in the emerging markets, and then deal with China. And then, Geno, if you will talk to Prevenar and the oncology products.

JOHN YOUNG: Thanks, Marc. Clearly there is some volatility. You've heard that the emerging markets, while they clearly represent overall significant continued opportunities for growth, but we do see quarter-on-quarter volatility, as you know. And particularly that is the case in the area of government tenders. So, without going into all of the details, but to give you a sense of some of the moving pieces, with Prevenar NIP shipments in Turkey this year, for example, we certainly have seen a fall in sales in Turkey this year. We had NIP sales last year. We haven't seen those year-to-date. In Brazil, we have seen decreased institutional purchases for Enbrel and also for Prevenar in the AFME, or Africa Middle East region. Enbrel Brazil shows around about a 2% decline this quarter and a 12% decline year-to-date, just to give you a sense of the rhythm of the business in Brazil.

And I think, overall, obviously the emerging markets represent a tapestry of markets around the world. But I think the high level message is, as we have always seen, we will see some quarter-on-quarter volatility, particularly in the area of institutional purchases. But overall the performance, the underlying performance of the business in the emerging markets for both Enbrel and Prevenar 13 remains very positive. But we have seen in those markets, in calling out Brazil and Turkey particularly, some volatility over the third quarter.

IAN READ: And in China, we continue to operate as we have always operated, where globally we operate with a heightened sense and a strict sense of compliance obligations. I don't believe our business in China has been particularly affected by anything other than just the macro economic situations that are occurring across the emerging markets. The growth rate has slowed up somewhat in China compared to the previous year, but continues to be robust. And we continue to expect our Chinese business to perform well.

GENO GERMANO: Just, Marc, a couple of comments on Inlyta and Xalkori, which we are really pleased with the progress that is being made there. For the quarter for Inlyta, we did $83 million, which is about 200% above what we did last year same quarter, and double-digit increase over our prior quarter. About half of that is in the US where we grew by about 50% relative to last year. So we're seeing nice continued, fairly robust uptake of Inlyta. Physicians are really pleased with this product. Patients are responding well. We have about a 30% share, second line, in the US, and about a 35% share of second line in Japan. So we're doing well. We think, in many cases, our future growth will come from expansion of use beyond academic medical centers, and with oncologists who are very familiar with the drug. And we think there is good opportunity for further growth there.

And Xalkori is also becoming a great product. $73 million for the quarter, up about 25% from last year and about 10% from the previous quarter. The trick there, it is the same story, we need to get the diagnostic in full use. We're at about 66% in the US, and a little bit less in Europe and Japan. So we will continue to work on that and continue to identify the appropriate patients and grow that business.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Just first off, on potential moves between now and 2017, how should we be thinking about the prospects? I know that there is a group at Pfizer that is, I believe, constantly looking at opportunities to do incremental separations. Do you see that as a possibility? Is that something that Pfizer is consistently looking at between now and 2016? And do you see opportunities for value creation there? I guess that is more a question for Ian. And then, separately, on tanezumab, can you just update us again on where we stand with the anti-NGFs, scientifically, the move forward in osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and cancer pain? And, again, how we should think about the potential changes in the development path as you partner with Eli Lilly. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Seamus. We set up the organizational construct because we believe it is the best way to focus and maximize the different parts of our business, as each segment represents, in my opinion, different models. It also gives us a lot of optionality going forward, as we look at ways of creating shareholder value. So, going back to your question, we are always looking at ways of maximizing shareholder value. And I think this construct gives us the maximum optionality and ability to look at different ways of creating that value. And we will take those decisions at the appropriate time as the opportunities mature. So with that, I will ask John to talk about tanezumab.

JOHN YOUNG: Okay, thanks, Seamus. Just to give you an update, I think as you know, in December 2012, the FDA placed a partial clinical hold on the development of NGF inhibitors, including tanezumab. That partial clinical hold was unrelated to the prior hold that related to bone- and joint-related safety. The latest clinical hold was based on peripheral nervous system effects observed in animal studies conducted with NGF inhibitors by other manufacturers. In April this year, we reached an agreement with the FDA on the path for removal of that partial clinical hold.

And to answer the questions which led to the partial clinical hold, I do think it was initiated to demonstrate sympathetic nervous system safety and the requisite nonclinical study in July of this year. And that study is progressing on schedule. So, we intend to submit the results from that study in the first half of 2014. And assuming a positive review of the nonclinical data by the FDA, and removal of the clinical hold, we are preparing to resume the Phase 3 studies for tanezumab early in 2014. So we are very excited about the deal that we announced today with Eli Lilly. And we believe that represents a very positive opportunity for us to collaborate, to take tanezumab into Phase 3 clinical development and ultimately, we believe, into the marketplace which clearly has significant need and opportunity for new pain treatment options. And so we're very excited about the potential for tanezumba, assuming that we are able to deliver positive data from those nonclinical studies. So hope that helps, Seamus.

OPERATOR: John Boris from SunTrust.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks for taking the questions. First question for Frank, when you take a look at the Alliance Revenue, at least consensus estimates for Alliance Revenue in '14 and '15, I think they are around $1.7 billion, $1.8 billion. Are you comfortable with those numbers being where they're at in light of the expiration of the majority of your agreements? And then when you look at the consensus revenue estimate of $50.5 billion for '14, can you just maybe walk us through some of the pushes, pull, or influencers, on losses of exclusivity that influence that number? And are you comfortable with it? Secondly, on the Mylan Pfizer agreement that you have in Japan, can you help us understand some of the accounting around that? And also the level of penetration that you got into the generic market in Japan. A very attractive opportunity there, especially in light of what the Japanese government is trying to push there. And then, lastly, just a pipeline question on the SGLT2, can you help us understand what the points of differentiation are, especially in light of there being three other entrants potentially in that market, before you enter? And then any thoughts around a combination strategy that you might have with Januvia. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Frank, do you want to address some of the projections in the question?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. I think the way I will do this for 2014 in total is maybe some of the head winds and then some of the tail winds. In terms of head winds, no surprises. We continue to have some losses of exclusivity that will affect us in 2014. Enbrel entering the 36-month sunset period is one of them. Spiriva in Japan is another. So, there will be some LOEs that we will experience that will impact 2014. We said previously $3 billion to $4 billion in LOE impacts for the next couple of years. That is clearly what we're expecting for 2014.

If you look at some of the tail winds, we continue to expect growth in emerging markets. Some of our new products, we have had some nice growth in Xalkori, Inlyta, Xeljanz. We expect to see new product growth continue in a steady and measured way. And we have had some nice performance in some of our inline products -- Lyrica this quarter, Celebrex this quarter, 11%, 13% globally. So lots of opportunities there.

And in terms of addressing head winds, in addition to the opportunity areas on the top line, we will continue to manage our corporate expense structure, we will continue to use our balance sheet and our capital structure to help us manage the LOE and revenue head winds, like we've been doing over the last couple of years.

In terms of Alliance Revenue, let me just run the numbers and then I will answer the question. If you look at the Alliance numbers this quarter, $700 million, down from $900 million in the year-ago quarter, down 22%. Year to date, down 15%, $2.6 billion to $2.2 billion. The majority of the Alliance Revenues to date are really from Enbrel and Spiriva. And going forward, the Alliance Revenues are going to come from Rebif, which is in the numbers today, and then obviously Eliquis growing. So that will be the rhythm of the numbers relative to the Alliance Revenues. But clearly, on a going forward basis, the Alliance Revenues will be declining, and they will be declining significantly.

In terms of Mylan accounting, I think the simple answer is we record the revenues from the products that are coming out of the collaboration.

IAN READ: John, do you want to make any comment on the penetration in the market or is it too early to do so?

JOHN YOUNG: Yes, I think it is really too early, John, to talk about penetration and market share, specifically, other than to say that we are on track. We have met all of our milestones in terms of the transfer of Mylan colleagues into the Pfizer organization. We are currently selling around about 250 products from the combined companies' generic portfolios in the marketplace. And the project plan is in place to transition all Mylan inventory to Pfizer distribution, which is a real strength of our organization in Japan. Processes and work are in place to address any quality supply risks.

In terms of manufacturing and development, initiatives have kicked off to build manufacturing capacity for collaboration volumes. And I think the overall message on Mylan is the joint venture is certainly progressing very much according to our plans.

In terms of our ertugliflozin, we, as you know, entered into a worldwide collaboration, except Japan, with Merck to develop and commercialize ertugliflozin, our ertugliflozin-containing fixed-dose combinations with metformin and Januvia tablets. It is our innovative proprietary SGLT2 inhibitor for treatment of Type 2 diabetes. And we are initiating Phase 3 clinical trials with our partner Merck. I certainly don't want to comment in detail about competitors in this class, other than to say that our two lead competitors have had probably a troubled regulatory pathway in the US and Europe. And we believe that the dialogue that we have been able to have with the FDA, as well as the strength of the molecule, certainly has enabled us to put together a development program, combined with the strength of our partnership with Merck, that gives us a very good runway into the marketplace.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Mikael, do you want to comment on the technical aspects of our product and differentiation?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, let me build on that excellent discussion that John had on ertugliflozin. It is a highly selective molecule for the SGLT2 transporter. And as you will learn when you explore that class, there is difference in the selectivity among the molecules. It's highly potent. It is a very low dose which is really a key characteristic, when you aim to combine with other drugs, such as a market-leader Januvia and metformin. It performed very well in the Phase 2 studies, with robust lowering of our hemoglobin A1c, and also favorable effect on blood pressure. So we think really these unique characteristics of our best-in-class molecules, combined with long experience with Januvia, allows for a very favorable long-term opportunity here.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, and thank you for taking the questions. Two, if I may. Ian, I wanted to get your latest thoughts about entering the cancer immunotherapy market. Perhaps partnering palbociclib for breast cancer with one of the leading PD1s. It seems like that could be a pretty promising combination. And a follow-up, we recently heard some negative comments from your peers about entering the biosimilar market, including commercial risks. So I'm just wondering, what is that's made you confident to proceed with a fairly aggressive biosimilar strategy? Thank you.

IAN READ: In the biosimilar market, each company takes its own view of the commercial opportunities. We feel that we have the technology and the ability to bring biosimilars to the market that will be very well characterized. We believe that in that marketplace, we don't see it reacting like the small molecule generic market. We believe it will probably act more like the sterile injectable market. We bring to that commercialization the credibility and the quality of Pfizer's manufacturing and research. And we think it is a reasonably low-cost development opportunity for products that have a high commercial opportunity. So, we think it is a good appropriate allocation of resources for the potential payoff. Geno, would you like to talk about the immunotherapy. And, if you want, pass it off to Mikael, as well, between the two of you.

GENO GERMANO: Alex, it is obviously a pretty active, exciting time with all that is happening with the checkpoint modulators, using monotherapy in various combinations across many different tumor types. We see this as an emerging field, with a lot of experimentation going on to identify appropriate patients and appropriate combinations. And we're actively exploring a number of mechanisms ourselves internally with our 4-1BB monoclonal antibody and some of the vaccine approaches that we have access to, as well as looking at potential partnerships.

IAN READ: Mikael, do you want to add?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, I think Ian described it very well. We have, of course, invested heavily in our signal transduction inhibitor. And as you mentioned palbociclib is one of the real example of potential breakthrough drugs here. But the ability to combine small molecule, large molecule with cancer immunotherapy is going to have a very interesting potential. And we have, as Geno alluded to, a number of internal activities but are also open for partnership, which in general we have shown is a great way to grow value in this industry.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. And back to biosimilars. You alluded to the notion that there would be some incremental R&D costs. Could you provide some color around that, please? And then, secondly, if I may, one question on meninge B, the 20,000 patient study, could you provide some timing for total enrollment and when that might read out? And moreover, Mikael, do you need high titers to both proteins in order to provide appropriate killing of the bacteria? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Tony, I wasn't quite sure of your question on the biosimilars. The incremental R&D expenditures per se, because of biosimilars, is because what I think I described as a very strong cohort of Phase 3 products coming in development in the near future. And one that we are also, where appropriate, partnering to ensure that we maximize shareholder return. Mikael, do you want to talk about the titer issue?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. Thank you for your interest in Mening B. And we do think it is a very important vaccine. It is the missing component in meningococcal strains, the meningococcal B. We have three trials that are well underway -- efficacy, and safety and lot consistency trial. And we believe that you should aspire to raise relevance titers to both proteins. Together these two proteins, that were carefully selected during our development process, they will cover the great majority of meningococcal strain, which is a unique feature of our vaccine. And we noticed in our Phase 2 trial robust titers and good tolerability. As you know, we are focusing on adolescent population, which is the main carrier of the disease.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Thank you. And, Tony, just to expand, the biosimilar spend, we have been spending, and it is in our baseline spend of our development programs. So I didn't particularly see that as a driver of our R&D spend.

IAN READ: And, Geno, just on the timing of enrollment or anything, do you have comments there for Mening B?

GENO GERMANO: We are enrolling now. And I think we anticipate completing enrollment in the 2015 time frame.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum from Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. A couple of questions, please. First, Ian and Frank, back to portfolio management, could you give us some guide to the total cost and the phasing of those costs for the operational separation of the Established Product business, just in helping us understand how optionality pans out. And then, second for Mikael, could you give us an update on the Phase 1 anti 4-1BB CD137 trial. It has been running for two-and-a-half years in a very refractory patient population. What are the chances we could get data prior to 2015? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Andrew. Frank, if you could take us through the implications of the structuring and the costs and the timing of that, et cetera. And then Mikael can answer the second question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. I think in terms of implementation costs, there are not material implementation costs. In fact, as we look at the new structure, there are some opportunities for synergies to the tune of a couple hundred million dollars, minimal amounts in 2014 as we're basically getting the structure in place. Then we see an opportunity in 2015, 2016, to capitalize on the new structure and generate a couple hundred million in operational synergies. So that is how I think about the puts and the takes on that.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: For 4-1BB, the mechanism seems to activate the immune cells, particularly T cells. And you're right, we have been exploring it for quite some time to fully understand its property. And we have studies ongoing, dose escalation studies, both as monotherapy and in combination with Rituximab in hematological patients. We are also looking at the combination of 4-1BB with other immunotherapies as part of our plans. And we will share the data as this protocol wraps up at relevant conferences.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. A couple of follow-ups. With respect to the head winds from the wind-down in the Enbrel North America and Spiriva collaborations, would an estimate of $1 billion reduction in net income for these collaborations be a reasonable guess for all of 2014? That's the first question. Second is, how do you assess the Herceptin biosimilar opportunity, given that the standard of care in HER-2 positive breast cancer is evolving so quickly, and that evolution may limit Herceptin's role over time? Meanwhile, Roche says it will compete aggressively, and there may be other biosimilar competitors, as well. So, is a shrinking market with unknown number of competitors attractive? And then, lastly, on the staph vaccine, you said data in 2014. On the second-quarter call you had said data later this year. So, any reason for that slight delay? Thank you.

IAN READ: Frank, if you could comment on the Alliance Revenue, and then John on Herceptin and the nature of that marketplace, and the pressures from managed care. And I think Mikael, on the timing.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the Alliance Revenue, I ran the numbers before on Alliance Revenue. We will provide an update on the 2014 revenue number in the guidance for 2014 on our next earnings call. We will incorporate into that number, obviously, the impact of the Alliance Revenue decline, on a year-over-year basis. So, on the next earnings call, we will provide the details on 2014.

JOHN YOUNG: And in terms of the question on biosimilars, almost by definition, biosimilars don't lead clinical practice. They follow it. So, clearly today, we know that overall the biosimilars marketplace, the biotherapeutics marketplace, is around about $100 billion marketplace globally for all biotherapeutics. And that marketplace is expected to grow to around about $300 billion by 2019. So, the first point to make in terms of our presence in the biosimilar marketplace is biotherapeutics overall is a very significant opportunity. And the biosimilar segment of that is expected to grow from its current value of around about $1.4 billion to potentially around about $22 billion by 2020. So the key point to make there is it is a big opportunity.

In terms of Herceptin, clearly don't want to comment on our competitors and any additional therapeutic research that they are doing, other than to say that, today, Herceptin remains a standard of care for that particular patient population. And so at the point that we have a biosimilar available to enter into the marketplace, then we believe that that would be a potentially good option for physicians and healthcare systems to use in patients for whom Herceptin or that molecule trastuzumab is an appropriate clinical choice.

IAN READ: Mikael, on timing.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, so we have completed successfully a Phase 1/2 trial. And our Herceptin is a very good biosimilar version of the originator. And we are now in the plans of starting a Phase 3 that will be initiating dosing within the next couple of months. And just to add to what John said, clearly, as you discussed, there will be always an evolving marketplace in many of these indications which are driven by a continuous flow of product. We do see still that many of these new regimens include combinations with Herceptin, biologicals on top of Herceptin, instead of traditional chemotherapeutics. And we anticipate that our molecule could offer a quality alternative.

IAN READ: And on the staph aureus, I haven't looked at the transcript, perhaps we misspoke. I think perhaps we said we had data or had internal data on staph aureus in that time period, but we intend to take it to a congress next year. So probably that was the confusion we created. And if we did, we apologize for that.

CHUCK TRIANO: I think that's right, Ian. I think it was a presentation of the data. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. I just have two questions. First, with respect to the CAPiTA outcomes trial, could you just talk about the reason for the delay in the results, just recap why it has been delayed so long? I'm guessing you are going to say it is simply event accrual. But is there any way to read anything positive or negative into the delays relative to the expected timing when CAPiTA was started many years ago? And then, separately, with respect to biosimilar Herceptin, do you have agreement with the FDA on how that trial will be run in the US? And, also, when do you plan to file biosimilar Herceptin in the US and ex-US? Thank you.

IAN READ: Geno, if you would like to talk about CAPiTA.

GENO GERMANO: I think on CAPiTA, David, you're right, I probably will say that it is event-driven. And when we have some number of events, we have the number of events. But just to comment on a couple of factors. The incident of infection often coincides with the severity of the flu season, for example. If the flu seasons have been milder, then you may not have as many events, and that can be a factor contributing to accumulation of events. And then there is overall efficacy or effectiveness of the vaccine. Obviously, if the vaccine is extraordinarily effective, then the only events you are going to accumulate are the ones in the placebo group. You won't accumulate any or very few in the vaccine group. That would be a good problem to have. And we will know soon what the real answer is.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno. John, could you talk about Herceptin?

JOHN YOUNG: Yes. I don't want to talk in detail about filing timelines. But in terms of your question about the regulatory pathway, certainly the EU and the US have increasingly provided more guidance on the pathways for regulatory approval, which include extensive analytical and preclinical data, robust comparative clinical and immunogenicity data, as well. And that development is consistent with our development strategy for our portfolio of biosimilars, including trastuzumab. We anticipate a Phase 3 start for that program by the end of the year, and we will be progressing that program in line with that guidance as expeditiously as possible.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John. And I think with that, we will complete our call. Thank you very much, everyone, for your attention this morning.

IAN READ: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Pfizer's third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131031e9at0038q
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,288 words
   PD
30 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's second quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP - IR, PFIZER INC: Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's second quarter 2013 performance. I'm joined today as usual by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for our Consumer Business; and John Young, President and General Manager of Primary Care. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage at Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2013 which is located in the Investor Presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Discussions during this conference call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliations of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, July 30, 2013. Also as we outlined in our earnings release, as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis, the financial results of the Animal Health business are now reported as a discontinued operation for the second quarter and year-to-date for both 2012 and 2013. With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Chuck. I'll begin with some comments on the quarter. We saw solid operational revenue growth in a number of areas. Within our innovative business, Oncology grew 28% driven by the uptake of new products mostly Inlyta and Xalkori in several major markets. And we saw strong performance from Lyrica in developed markets, which grew 14%, and Celebrex in US, which grew by 13%. The Consumer business grew 5% operationally primarily due to strong global growth from Centrum. And China had strong volume growth, most notably for Lipitor and Prevenar. Overall total China revenues grew 14% operationally or 22% excluding the impact of product transfers in connection with forming our partnership with Hisun.

We continual to expect that the second half of this year will be stronger than the first half for Emerging Markets, although on a full-year basis we now expect to see operational revenue growth of mid-single-digits rather than high-single-digits. This is mainly due to a slowdown in growth in Brazil and Russia and the impact of cost containment measures in Colombia, Poland, Thailand and Turkey. We completed the full separation of Zoetis into a stand-alone public company. The transactions related to the disposition of Zoetis generated approximately $17.2 billion of after tax value for Pfizer shareholders. And our Board of Directors authorized a new $10 billion share repurchase program to be utilized over time. This new program is in addition to the $3.1 billion of authorization remaining under the Company's current share repurchase program.

Turning to our products and pipeline assets, the launches of both Eliquis and Xeljanz continue to progress in various markets around the world. And we are gaining market approvals for both Xeljanz and Eliquis in additional countries. We are encouraged with the potential for both of these therapies over time.

For Eliquis, we are focused on gaining preferred formulary acceptance, continuing to obtain reimbursement and building physician knowledge and comfort about the drug and its profile. With its unique profile in atrial fibrillation, as the only product with superiority versus warfarin in stroke prevention, major bleeding and a proven mortality benefit, we are confident we'll continue to see steady growth that will build over time.

For Xeljanz, we're seeing good opportunities for patients who are switching from their current biologic therapy as well as patients who are initiating Xeljanz therapy in a second-line setting, that is, following methotrexate but before a biologic DMARD. In fact, almost 50% of our recent prescriptions are in a second-line setting with the remainder being patients who have been on one or more biologic DMARDs and not achieving satisfactory results.

In addition we began our direct-to-consumer campaign in the US early in June and have seen a subsequent uptick in prescription volume. Last month we announced that the FDA had accepted full review of supplementary new drug application to include progression of structural damage in the Xeljanz label. And as of today, Xeljanz will be commercially available in Japan where it will be co-promoted by Pfizer and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. Overall we remain encouraged by what we are seeing with physicians' and patients' experience so far. I would describe our progress as measured and steady and we recognize it will continue to take time for rheumatologists to feel comfortable making a change. The launch is consistent with our expectations for a new oral mechanism.

Turning to the status of Xeljanz in Europe, last week we announced that the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use in the EU confirmed their prior opinion for the marketing authorization application for Xeljanz, although with a much closer vote. Given the novel mechanism of action for Xeljanz, the CHMP wanted to see more data, particularly around safety to better understand the full profile of Xeljanz relative to other agents used in this patient population. As a result of the re-examination process, we addressed several of the questions and have more clarity on the remaining ones. We plan to work with the European Medicines Agency to determine what additional data will be needed in order to resubmit a marketing authorization application and anticipate this will result in several years' delay.

Regarding the Xeljanz phase 3 psoriasis program, it continues to progress. However, given the large size and complexity of this data set, the analysis and reporting of the data have been more complicated than we anticipated. That said, there is no issue with the integrity of the data and this delay is purely due to operational issues. As a result, we now expect to announce the top-line results from two of our four psoriasis ongoing studies by the end of the year. One of the studies expected to read out this year evaluates maintenance or efficacy when patients are withdrawn from and then re-treated with Xeljanz therapy. The second study compares the efficacy and safety of Xeljanz to Enbrel and placebo. We anticipate reporting the top-line results from the two pivotal studies that will be part of our planned regulatory submission in the second quarter of this year -- of next year, sorry.

For Prevnar, sales this quarter were adversely impacted in the US by the variability of CDC purchase patterns and a lower birth cohort in the US as well as the end of a supplementary dose program in Asia. Regarding CAPiTA, we continue to accumulate events and based on historic event rates, we expect to complete the study this year. Given the size of the study, which is approximately 85,000 patients, once a number of events is achieved, it will still take several months to complete the necessary database validation and related activities prior to unblinding the results. Given where we are today, we expect that we should see top-line results in the first half of 2014.

As we announced yesterday, we are moving forward with formally internally separating our commercial and management structure into Innovative and Value business segments and we will integrate Emerging Markets fully into each of these segments. One of the Innovative business segments will be led by Geno Germano, who will become Group President, Innovative Products. This business segment will generally include products that have exclusivity beyond 2015 across multiple therapeutic areas consisting of Immunology and Inflammation including Enbrel, Cardiovascular Metabolic, Neuroscience and Pain, Rare Diseases, and Women's and Men's health. Xeljanz and Eliquis are examples of products in this business.

The other Innovative business segment will be led by Amy Schulman, who will become Group President of Vaccines, Oncology and Consume Healthcare. Each of these businesses will operate as a separate global business. Each has a different operating model with distinct specializations around science, talent and market approach.

The Value Products segment will be led by John Young. It will include the brands that have lost their exclusivity and generally the mature patent-protected products that are expected to lose exclusivity through 2015 in most markets. Some examples include Celebrex, Zyvox, Viagra outside of the US and Lyrica in the EU.

The Value business will also include our biosimilars portfolio and current and future collaborations for broadening our off-patent portfolio such as our existing partnerships with Mylan in Japan, Hisun in China and Teuto in Brazil. While we have decided to integrate Emerging Markets into the Innovative and Value businesses, these markets will continue to play an important role in Pfizer's long-term success. We see the fastest-growing Emerging Markets becoming more aligned with the profile of developed markets. With these changing dynamics, we believe this is the right strategic move for us at this time. I have asked Olivier Brandicourt to lead the transition from the current Emerging Markets business into each of the three business segments.

And with Amy becoming the Group President of Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare, we are appointing Doug Lankler, currently our Chief Compliance and Risk Officer to be Pfizer's General Counsel. In addition, Rady Johnson, Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel, will become the new Chief Compliance and Risk Officer. All of the leadership changes are effective January 1, 2014. We will be moving towards operating in the new commercial structure at the start of 2014 while we continue to manage our business and report our financial results in the existing structure for the balance of 2013. All of the current leaders will continue in their roles for the remainder of this year.

Starting with the release of our financial results for the first quarter of 2014, we will provide greater transparency into the financial profile of each of the three new business segments. Our plan is to provide a 2014 baseline management view of profit and loss for each segment. We anticipate providing additional financial detail as we move forward within the new structure effective January 1, 2015.

In summary, I believe this new commercial structure will put us in a better position to assess the capabilities, progress and opportunities of our innovative core and provide our Value business dedicated resources required to further strengthen and globally position it to be a market leader. Now I will turn it over to Frank to take you through the details for the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. Before I begin, I want to point out that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24, 2013, the financial results of the Animal Health business are now reported as a discontinued operation in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the second quarter and year-to-date for both 2012 and 2013.

Now let's move on to the financials. Second quarter 2013 revenues of approximately $13 billion decreased 7% year-over-year, reflecting a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange and an operational decline of approximately 4% driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies, most notably Lipitor in developed Europe in the second quarter of 2012 and multi-sourced generic competition for Lipitor in the US beginning in late-May 2012. The decline in Pfizer's share of revenues per the terms of the co-promotion agreements for Spiriva, which are in the final year in the US, Australia, Canada and certain European countries, the timing of government purchases of Prevnar in various markets, and the transfer of certain product rights to our joint venture in China with Hisun in the first quarter. Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.56 decreased 5% primarily due to the previously mentioned decrease in revenues and the impact of foreign exchange, which were partially offset by a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted-average shares outstanding, primarily due to our ongoing share repurchase program. Reported diluted EPS was $1.98 compared with $0.43 in the year-ago quarter. This was mainly driven by the pretax gain of $10.5 billion associated with the full disposition of Zoetis and to a much lesser extent, by the Protonix patent litigation settlement and lower legal charges, which were partially offset by the previously mentioned decrease in revenues and a 5.1 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate on reported income from continuing operations mainly attributable to the tax liability associated with the previously mentioned Protonix patent litigation settlement.

During the second quarter, biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets declined 2% operationally primarily due to the timing of government purchases of Enbrel in Brazil and Prevenar in Turkey and the transfer of certain product rights to the Pfizer-Hisun joint venture in the first quarter. These were partially offset by strong volume growth in China, especially for Lipitor and Prevenar. In these BRIC-MT markets, volume growth of 1% was more than offset by price reductions of 3% versus the year-ago quarter. In addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted BRIC-MT revenue by 1% in the second quarter of 2013. Revenue from all Emerging Markets increased 4% operationally in the second quarter. If you exclude the portfolio of products whose rights were transferred to our joint venture in China with Hisun, we would have had operational revenue growth of 5% in our Emerging Markets business and 22% in China and BRIC-MT operational revenue would have been flat compared with the year-ago quarter.

Operational biopharmaceutical revenue growth from our Emerging Markets business is expected to accelerate in the second half of the year to a high-single-digit percentage. However, we now expect full-year operational revenue growth in our Emerging Markets business to be in the mid-single-digits percentage due to continued slowing growth in some markets as pricing pressures continue to build and governments take additional steps to contain rising health care expenditures. As we've previously stated, because of the continued volatility in Emerging Markets, we anticipate our performance in that business to fluctuate from quarter to quarter.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter revenues by 3% or $392 million and had a net positive impact of 3% or $228 million on the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted R&D expenses. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.02 compared with the year-ago quarter.

Now moving on to our 2013 financial guidance, we are reaffirming all components of our full-year 2013 adjusted financial guidance that we updated on June 24th to solely reflect the impact of the Zoetis exchange offer. I want to remind everyone that the weighted-average shares outstanding used in the calculation of adjusted and reported diluted EPS reflects the net reduction of 405.1 million shares of Pfizer's outstanding common stock as a result of the exchange offer. Because the exchange offer was completed on June 24th, we will recognize only a partial-year benefit to our full-year 2013 adjusted and reported diluted EPS. As an additional reminder, when we completed the full disposition of Zoetis in June, we announced that the expected impact of the removal of the full-year 2013 financial contribution of Zoetis and the impact of the partial-year benefit from the net reduction in shares of our outstanding common stock due to the exchange offer would result in a $0.04 decrease to the upper and lower ends of our projected range for 2013 adjusted diluted EPS. Today, we've also updated our 2013 reported diluted EPS guidance range to $3.07 to $3.22 to reflect the gain associated with the full disposition of Zoetis and income from the previously mentioned litigation settlement.

Now moving on to key take-aways. Second quarter results reflect the loss of exclusivity of certain products in various geographies as well as the continued volatility in Emerging Markets. As I previously mentioned, we expect high-single-digit operational revenue growth in Emerging Markets during the second half of 2013 and now expect mid-single-digit growth for the full year. We continue to mitigate the earnings impact of product LOEs with both expense discipline and share repurchases. We completed the full disposition of Zoetis during the second quarter and we accepted 405.1 million shares of Pfizer common stock in exchange for our remaining interest in Zoetis. We continue to expect the transaction to be accretive to reported and adjusted diluted EPS on a full-year basis in 2014.

We are reaffirming all components of our 2013 adjusted financial guidance. We remain excited about the potential of our new product launches in our mid-to-late stage pipeline. We've announced our intention to implement the new commercial structure beginning in fiscal 2014 which we expect will better position Pfizer for long-term success.

And we continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. In the second quarter, we repurchased approximately $3.3 billion of our common stock. To date in 2013, we have repurchased approximately $8.7 billion or approximately 309 million shares and have $13.1 billion remaining under our current authorization. And we continue to expect to repurchase in the mid-teens of billions of dollars of our common stock this year despite the blackout period for share repurchases during and for 10 business days after the Zoetis exchange offer period. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2013 and beyond. Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank and Ian, for the update. Operator, can we please now poll for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks very much for the questions. The first one was on the corporate structure. Can you elaborate a little bit on why three divisions here as compared to simply the Innovative and Value core franchises you've discussed in the past? Is there -- and there's just talking about, is there a scenario where Pfizer could break itself into three companies at some point in the future?

And then my second question was -- and just so I'm clear, can you elaborate a little bit more on what type of P&L granularity we should be anticipating in 2014? And then maybe even looking forward to 2015 for these three operating divisions? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Chris. So why the three rather than two? I think, it basically is, very strong operational reasons that the Innovative business under Geno has a collection of large disease areas that cut across both the Primary Care and Specialty. And they have challenges, both capital allocation and of the go-to-market model as we look to be more efficient in how we deliver the message and how we get to see primary care physicians.

Whereas the Oncology business and the Vaccine business have a very distinct culture. They are smaller businesses that I want to make sure that you get -- didn't get subsumed into a larger Primary Care business. They have specific customers. They have dedicated research facilities and research focus. And I thought it was very important for those businesses to maintain their unique focus and extend it globally.

So that was the prime reason for maintaining or creating the structure where we had two Innovative businesses. On the details, I'll turn it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, so, Chris, on the P&L granularity, for 2014 and then you asked about beyond 2014. For 2014 fiscal year, we'll show revenue for each of the three businesses, we'll show direct costs and we'll show direct expenses. And then what we'll do is on the expenses that we don't allocate today, that we don't allocate come fiscal 2014, we'll provide some qualitative directional statements so that you will be able to model some good full-stream P&Ls.

Come fiscal 2015, we'll provide that same information and then we'll provide some additional balance sheet information as well. So that's kind of the rhythm of how we're thinking about this.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: On the separation, was curious as you internally separate these businesses, are you considering any changes that could affect the overall tax structure at Pfizer?

And then on Palbo I have a couple questions. By when will you know that you might not have data in time for San Antonio? I assume it's sometime before the actual start of that conference so let us know if there's a key date there.

And Lilly has a program that's much earlier in that class. But they talk about the ability of their product to be dosed continuously. Any comments on that subject of continuous dosing versus otherwise? Thanks.

IAN READ: Great. Thank you. I'll ask Frank to comment on the tax issue.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So in terms of the tax structure, the creation of these three businesses in and of themselves does not impact in any material way the tax structure. But we're always doing tax planning to see what we can be -- what we can do to be more efficient from a tax perspective.

IAN READ: And then if, Geno, could you respond to the questions on palbo?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT & GM, SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC: Yes. With regard to the timing on palbo, we're continuing to accumulate events. And based on the rate of accumulation that we're seeing at this point, we think it's unlikely that we'll be presenting data at San Antonio. So I don't have a specific date to give you, but I think our best view at this point is it's unlikely that we'll present at San Antonio. We still expect to accumulate the required events around the end of the year, but unlikely we'll meet the San Antonio date.

And then with regard to continuous dosing, I'm really not sure and familiar with the Lilly program so I can't really comment on that.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. A couple questions on the split up.

Can you give us a very rough preliminary idea of how operating margins might compare across those different businesses? Could Established Products have the highest margins because those products tend to kick off a lot of cash and don't require a lot of support or even directional guidance on this sort of thing would be very helpful because that's what folks, I think, are going to be interested in as we head into 2014.

And then separately, you've talked about needing three years of audited financials before you could potentially truly split up the Company if that's what you're ultimately decide to do. There's been some speculation that perhaps you could use historic data for this three-year requirement which means you wouldn't have to wait until 2017 or so until you really carve it up. Is this a possibility or should we really think of 2017 as being the earliest you could really split things up.

IAN READ: Well, I'll ask Frank to answer the margin issue the best he can and also your hypothetical question on the data needed to split.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So let me answer the second question first, which is on data requirements if we were ever to decide to do something external to the Company. And obviously we haven't decided anything yet, which is it requires three years of audited financials. And our current thinking is those would be prospective.

The thought of trying to retrospectively create those when we look at everything that we need to be done is -- would be extremely difficult. So the current thinking is clearly that those would be prospective in terms of the three years of audited financials. So that's how I'd answer the second question.

On the first question on operating margins, the way I think about this is we're going to provide 2014 guidance. We're going to start providing more granularity relative to these three businesses. So, Tim, for the time being I really don't want to start projecting the margins on those businesses until we start showing them come 2014. And then we'll get lots more clarity when that time comes.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Just to follow-up on that last question, Frank, is there a difference in SEC requirements for a spin versus a split?

And then a question for you, Ian, on M&A, you've done an amazing job returning cash to shareholders, which we've all strongly applauded. But you also say that with respect to M&A that you would only -- you would always view share buybacks as the case to beat, but with your stock at a 12 to 13 multiple, there really is no case to beat relative to a share buyback. So I'm wondering how you're thinking about M&A going forward especially as it relates to the potential to split the Company into multiple parts that might require more growth drivers or M&A activity? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you. So on the BD issues, we look at BD not as a strategy, but as a way of creating shareholder value and strengthening parts of our franchises or portfolio. We've always tried to analyze it in the light of new capabilities or strengthening capabilities we already had. We've tended to talk in terms of bolt-ons. And you have to think that bolt-ons would be -- you'd easily consider single-digit in billions of bolt-on for this Company. And we've also said we'll look at any type of acquisition, never say never to larger acquisitions if it made sense.

Regarding when would we consider our share price to be at a level that BD would be more effective? Well, it depends on what deal we're looking at in BD, how it's priced, and where our expectations are of our multiple is and going in the next two to three years. So I don't think I can answer that in a hypothetical way, but we'll look at each case by case, we'll look at each deal, we're active in looking at deals. We compare it to what we think the value of buybacks are, and we take that decision on a deal-by-deal basis.

Do you want to add anything to that, Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, let me just add quickly to that and then I'll answer the question about split versus spin, which is -- and, Jami, when we look at deals, remember in terms of the case to beat being buybacks, it's also over what time frame? So is it year one? Is it year two?

And then how do we feel about the certainty of being able to achieve those EPS projections based on assumptions on synergies and the like. So in my mind, to Ian's point, its deal-by-deal, situational and then over what timeframe do we see that being, I'll call it accretive relative to the buybacks.

And then in terms of the split versus the spin question and is there any difference in required financials, the answer is, no. Both scenarios require three years of audited financials.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Operator, can we move to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, guys. Excuse me. Thank you very much for taking the question. Maybe I can build on Jami's question around use of cash. I think in the past I've heard you say things like your priorities are cancer, vaccines and also general practitioner drugs.

I wondered if you could clarify or confirm that and when you say never say never to a larger deal, maybe you could just expand on that. Is that just a theoretical statement or is that something that we should be thinking about as a possible move for Pfizer?

And then under the new structure, will -- have you decided, will BD be centralized or will each unit have independent BD M&A functions within them? And maybe just a quick R&D if I can, do you expect the NGF antibody to return to clinical development? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. So you asked about BD in seg -- by segments. Clearly, BD that builds on a capability that allows you to synergize your expense base are easy to get done than BD when you're going to a totally new space. So while we look at any good intellectual property that we could bring to patients and use our capabilities to bring to patients, they're easy to get done if you've got some inherent synergies.

On a big deal, all I would say is, look, we're focused on creating value for shareholders. And you do the analysis, and you look at the risks, and you look at the uncertainties, and you make your decisions as you go forward. We've been up to date primarily focused on bolt-ons.

Frank, do you want to talk about BD? Certainly I would say part of the rationale for creating these global businesses is that you now -- I now feel I can have management teams tasked on creating both organic and inorganic growth. And they're obviously going to have close ties and working with our BD organization. But, Frank, do you want to add to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. On the BD org structural question, the way we approach this is the BD resources are centralized. However, there is a matrix from a client support perspective. So when you look at any of the business they'll have folks that are dedicated to them, that literally, from a business perspective, are on their team. Who they report to from my perspective is irrelevant.

We matrix this in such a way that they're reporting is transparent. They're living with those folks, they're co-locating with those folks, they're working with those folks on a dedicated day-to-day basis. That's how we do it, quite frankly, for just about all of our enabling functions.

IAN READ: John, do you want to add something?

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT, GM - PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC: Yes, thanks for the question about tanezumab, which is our NGF antibody. Just a quick update. On the 19th of July this year, we actually received notification from the FDA that the partial clinical hold for tanezumab has been lifted. You may know that the partial clinical hold had been placed on the development of all the NGF inhibitors back in December 2012 based on observation and some animal tox studies conducted on NGF inhibitors in development through other manufacturers.

So the partial clinical hold was lifted on a commitment by Pfizer to submit nonclinical data before initiating dosing in clinical trials. And thereafter to limit any dosing duration until the additional nonclinical data has been submitted and reviewed by the FDA. So there was record that nonclinical data studies have already been started and with the lifting of the partial clinical hold, and on the assumption of positive review of the nonclinical data by the FDA, we're preparing for a resumption of phase 3 clinical studies in 2014.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning and thank you for taking the questions. First on the R&D and perhaps M&A front, either for Ian or Geno, could you comment on the extent to which cancer immunotherapy is a priority for you?

And then for Frank, you've obviously returned a lot of cash to shareholders in terms of buybacks but any thoughts on a dividend increase given your relatively low payout ratio? Thank you.

IAN READ: Mikael, do you want to take the R&D question?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC: So we have a broad effort in oncology and immunology and we certainly have interest also in the cancer immunology area. On one hand we have some vaccines in the cancer immunology area that are starting to move into pre-clinical development, but we also have some monochromal antibodies. Let me mention one, the CD137 checkpoint activating antibody that we now have in phase 1 studies in hematological and solid tumors and are following with quite some interest that antibody and other assets.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. Frank, do you want to --?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Dividend?

IAN READ: Dividend.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. Let me just run the numbers on the dividend and then I'll answer the question, which is when we announced the Wyeth acquisition back in 2009, we cut the dividend in half from $1.28 to $0.64. Since then we've increased the dividend 2009 to 2010, 2010 to 2011, 2011 to 2012, 2012 to 2013 from $0.64 to $0.72 to $0.80 to $0.88 to $0.96 -- 12.5%, 11%, 10% and 9% dividend decreases over the last four years.

Our cadence is always at our December Board meeting we typically -- Ian and I make a recommendation to the Board relative to what we expect or what we want the dividend to be for the following year. Once the Board approves that, we come out with a release to let everyone know what the new dividend will be. That's what we are expecting to do this year. And then in terms of just absolute dollar amounts, at the current dividend level, we'll be paying more than $6 billion in cash to our shareholders this year. So big number.

And you mentioned the payout ratio. If you look -- if you use the midpoint of our guidance and then use the $0.96, you get about 45%, which is roughly in line with the industry, maybe a couple of points below. But we've been closing that gap over the last couple of years with our increases.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. First is PCSK9, the subcutaneous, I think we're supposed to hear about that in mid-year, just wondering update there? Second on Xeljanz, I know you're working on a once-daily version. I was curious if you can update us there. And then there were a couple of products in the US that were very strong, Lyrica and Celebrex, was there stocking that drove that or can you help us there? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay, Mikael, do you want to talk about PCSK9 results and then Geno will do -- talk about Xeljanz and John on Lyrica and Celebrex?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. Thank you for your interest in PCSK9. We do believe there will be a limited number of entrants in this new drug class. We think it has potential to be a very important drug class with substantial clinical and commercial potential.

Key here will be to over time demonstrate the important long term CV outcomes value for the patients, physicians and payers. Our own antibody is now fully enrolled in phase 2b and we'll soon complete that study. We have seen interim results showing potent antibody with a competitive profile. And we will assemble all the data from the phase 2b and look at the opportunity for subcutaneous delivery at various time intervals and make a decision at end of this year about the next step forward.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

GENO GERMANO: With regard to the Xeljanz once-a-day program, we do have a delayed release formulation that we're moving forward with. We've had dialogue with the FDA on the development plan and we have determined that the registration package will be comprised primarily of pharmacokinetic data, PK data, without a requirement for a clinical phase 3 trial which will accelerate the development of that program. So we expect to be filing by early 2015.

JOHN YOUNG: Mark, with regard to your question about the operational performance of Lyrica and Celebrex, essentially both products have seen strong operational growth in the quarter and year-to-date. We haven't seen any effect of stocking or changes in inventory levels in the marketplace. In fact, those have been very steady. And really the performance that you're seeing is really just a reflection of the combination of both price and volume in the US and the value proposition that continues to resonate very well with physicians.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John. Our next question please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes. Thanks very much. I have three questions on the new business structure and then a pipeline question.

So first, is it dilutive to create three business units and build the matrix and enabling functions? Second, could you discuss breaking up the sales forces in Emerging Markets and applying them to the new segments? And then third, regarding the three years of audited financials, I'm assuming that's to affect tax-free exits, but would you consider divesting one of the units, for example, Established Products before you have three years of audited financials? Or is that just not realistic given the necessity to ensure tax-free transactions?

And then for Mikael, could you just tell us what the key pipeline disclosures are to watch through year-end, including whether you're going to provide any updates on your breakthrough therapy discussions with the FDA on palbociclib? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. So we don't believe this new structure will be dilutive to our present structure. In fact, we assume that there will be some modest savings as we go to that structure. You have to remember, we already have -- in the developed markets, we already have a Primary Care, a Specialty Care, Vaccines and Oncology business and then we have an Emerging Markets business. In the rest of the world,we are effectively collapsing most of the Primary Care and Specialty business into one BU, so we do not believe that is -- the collapsing of those BUs are going to be dilutive.

On the field force in Emerging Markets, it really depends country by country. But if you take a country like China, the vast majority of the sales force will sit in the Value business and we will have internal service agreements to provide field force support for the Innovative products. I do not see that at all as an operational issue. It's something we've been doing for quite some time, is sharing field force between BUs.

I'd ask Frank to talk about the three years and the possibility by divestiture prior to that. And then we'll go to Mikael.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So on the tax-free question that you asked, Dave, the way I think about this is, taxes aside, we'll need to file -- if we would ever do anything externally, we haven't decided, we would need to file a registration statement. Those registration statements require three years of audited financials. So that's the way I think about that.

In terms of something prior to three years of audited financials, our current thinking is this is all about getting these three businesses to hum internally, to operate with excellence inside the Company. And our current thinking is all around three years of prospective financials that would be auditable.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: David, thank you for your interest in our pipeline. And I'm very excited about the pipeline, both short term and over the next couple of years. With a focus on this year, we already touched upon our phase 2b in PCSK9 that we'll get data readout in -- during this second half of the year.

On Xeljanz psoriasis, Ian has touched upon the two trials that will have a readout this year that will give us some first insight how Xeljanz is performing this new indication. We also have, I would like to say, in psoriasis a topical study that now is running which I think is a very interesting further explanation of tofacitinib. You heard about Prevnar in adults that we are expecting, CAPiTA can complete during the later part of this year. Within the vaccines franchise, we are also now in the finalization of our report from Staphylococcus aureus, PoC trials that we will share during the later part of this year. I'm very encouraged by the profile I've seen so far when it comes to this unique technology that we are deploying for a very broad immune response to Staph aureus.

In Oncology, we have the two dacomitinib trials for a second, third line and third line and fourth line that we expect to have data this year that will be probably shared early next year.

And you heard earlier Geno's comment on palbociclib that we expect to have the final pieces of the data come together this year. And we have previously had very good dialogues with FDA on the breakthrough designation so we expect a continued very close dialogue and our guidance how to best use those data to the benefit of patients.

And on top of that, in phase 2, let me just point to a couple of intriguing areas. We have a best-in-class IL6 antibody, a very long-acting antibody with a good potency and we expect readouts this fall in Lupus and later next year in Crohn's. We have a readout in COPD related to a P38 inhibitor. We have our second biosimilar that have a readout this year, Rituximab. We have earlier communicated positive data from our first biosimilar product -- to Herceptin.

And then we are broadening our inflammation efforts to also involve the intersection of cardiovascular disease with a readout from a novel PDE5 inhibitor in chronic kidney disease. So I do look forward to share with you the output from all of these studies in the next years to come.

CHUCK TRIANO: Excellent. Thank you, Mikael. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. Some brief questions on the new structure if I may.

If we could go back to the notion of business development and if we use an example, say, in Established Products with your partnership with the Brazilian company Teuto, I believe there is an option to actually buy the entire company. So the question is, is that a decision by John Young and his group, that they make a recommendation to you, Ian and Frank and the Board? How does that capital actually get allocated if that were to occur?

The second question is around R&D to the structures. Is 100 -- this may seem silly but is 100% of the R&D allocated to the three structures? And I say this because I might -- if they were split apart, one could argue if all of the R should go in one of the Innovative areas versus one of the others or not at all or could be less than.

And then similarly in the Established Products group with respect to R&D allocation, I could actually argue under the Pfizer umbrella there's very little R&D, but yet I suspect if it were stand-alone, if you look at Teva, Mylan as examples, 6% of total - 6 to 8% of total revenue is actually R&D. So I'm just trying to understand when we see this in January, Frank, how does it actually look if you could provide some additional granularity? Thanks again.

IAN READ: So on Teuto, what the business -- global business units will do is they will be champions of projects in BD. Though we need to maximize the use of BD across the Pfizer portfolio so the decision is taken at the corporate level and the BU leaders have to champion the deals.

On the R&D, clearly there are parts of R&D that are specific to the BUs and parts that are general infrastructure underneath it. And I think we'll work through that as we go. But I'll ask Frank to comment on that.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Tony, let me provide a little more granularity and see if this is helpful, which is -- so before when I talked about direct expenses to the new businesses, clearly the post-POC expenses that are in the business units today would continue to be in the business units tomorrow. Then if you look at I'll call it the pre-POC spend that we have that resides in Mikael's organization today and what we call WRD, Worldwide Research and Development, that doesn't get allocated to the business units today. We're looking at how best to guide you all relative to that spend.

And that's stuff that we're working our way through and we'll work our way through that through the year and obviously give you guys update as we go. But we are looking at how best to basically -- how best to communicate that to you all so that you can model this appropriately, point one.

And then you mentioned EP and if I could give you a little bit more direction the answer is, of course I can. If you look at the overall R&D spend, the Value business as a percentage of revenue will have a lower spend than Innovative co-businesses as a percentage of revenue. And once again, how we best derive -- direct and guide you for next year is some of the sub-ledger detail that we're working our way through.

IAN READ: And, Tony, this is part of the -- one of the benefits I expect to get out of having the global businesses with Presidents who are champions. So the R&D today that would probably go to Established is more the type of R&D that is safety, registration, regulatory, some biosimilars, and then some work around special formulations and that type of work. John's role is -- will be to look at that and, as you say, compare it to what he needs to do to drive growth and look at competitors and argue for capital allocation if appropriate into his R&D. And this is what -- the benefit you get out of this type of focus on businesses.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. First on Xeljanz, is the CHMP seeking longer-term safety data or is there a potentially rare and/or serious issue that they are requiring clarification upon? Secondly, is CAPiTA's delay due to a lower than expected event rate or is it due to some other reason? And then thirdly on Emerging Markets, may we anticipate high-single-digit growth will return in 2014 and beyond or is this a business where mid-single-digit growth is more likely? Thank you.

IAN READ: Geno?

GENO GERMANO: Yes, Steve, with regard to CHMP and Xeljanz, obviously we're somewhat disappointed at the outcome following what was really a positive scientific advisory group meeting. And a positive view from the rapporteurs this time around. Ultimately CHMP members -- or at least some of the CHMP members, a small majority wanted to see additional safety data. And in particular wanted to understand the full profile of tofacitinib with a new mechanism of action relative to other agents that are used in this patient population.

So it's not entirely clear whether we're looking for longer-term data or a larger database. As you know, we continue to collect safety data. We have long-term extension trials, we have registration trials, we have post-marketing studies that we are kicking off from the US registration. So we have multiple ways, and then of course we have the psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis programs. We have a number of mechanisms to generate additional safety data and we'll obviously continue to do that.

It's not entirely clear at the moment what we'll need to do to achieve a registration. We do anticipate we'll need to do some additional clinical work and, as Ian mentioned before, we think this could require several years of delay in Europe. So that's the best way I can characterize the situation there with the CHMP.

With regard to CAPiTA, it's difficult to predict what the event rate is going to be. It's going to depend on various dynamics like the severity of the flu seasons, the efficacy of the vaccine. So if it's a highly effective vaccine, then the only cases that you're accumulating are cases in the placebo group so it is difficult to predict. And we are coming very close to the target number of events and hope to be able to present more clarity in the very near future.

IAN READ: And on EM, we've always said that EM is -- will be volatile. And we'll see swings quarter-on-quarter and even year-to-year. I think we'd all agree that secularly that that's where we're seeing the vast majority of volume growth is coming from in the foreseeable future as these economies continue to spend more on healthcare. And the growth rates are going to fluctuate depending on how the volume's doing and what pricing pressures you're getting in the quarter.

So I would say it's really too early to tell or to reset expectations for where we think long-term growth in the Emerging Markets are going to go. And we'll look at it in our 2014 guidance. But overall, we are -- we continue to be very bullish on the underlying demand for healthcare in Emerging Markets.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good afternoon. Couple of questions. First on the immunotherapy assets, you mentioned, Mikael, the CD137. When do we get the first readout in NHL? Is that next year?

And then same topic, before you divested tremelimumab to Astra you maintained some rights. Perhaps you could outline what indications you have retained?

And then separately for Ian, one of your competitors is having very visible issues in China. To what extent do you think that the ongoing investigations over fraud are going to impact pricing or demand in that market?

IAN READ: Okay. Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. So we just now running the phase 1b studies here with our 4-1BB. We think we have a really interesting antibody and we've seen some encouraging early signs of activity here. I would expect as we finalize the phase 1 studies here, we will use conventional oncology conferences to report outcome.

We also have behind it a couple of other antibodies such as OX 40 and GITR. So you should see it as a second wave of checkpoint inhibitors trying to benefit from the early enthusiasm around the PD1 space, but building on that and bringing the field further on.

Tremelimumab, we did retain particularly the rights to use it for vaccines. And I shared with you some enthusiasm about our cancer vaccines platform. And I can inform you that you do include tremelimumab as one of the options for adjuvant effect on cancer vaccine. So that was a really good way for us to plan when we did that retention.

IAN READ: Thank you. And on China I can't really comment on individual cases. I would say what we've seen in China is that as the government focuses in spending more on healthcare, they clearly want to be good buyers of value of pharmaceuticals. So we'd expect to continue to have robust conversations and debates with them as we go forward as to the value of the innovation we bring. I think you'll continue to see, as they have been doing, they do price reviews of segments of the market and they reset prices.

And normally volume responds to different price points. So I think that will continue in China as we go forward.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian. Moving along, next question please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Thanks very much. Just a couple of questions here. First, can you talk a little bit about how you are going to be thinking about cost of goods and some of the overlapping dynamics there? Is this a situation where Pfizer might consider a Coke Bottling or a Lonza type structure over time? Should the units be split out?

Or how is that going to operate as we think about it? Separately, can you also talk a little bit about Europe and infrastructure there relative to the overall industry's profitability. One of your competitors commented on that and I think that might be particularly relevant as perhaps particularly relevant for Geno's business unit.

And then finally as it relates to the Emerging Markets, Ian, you mentioned specifically that you see the Emerging Markets, some of the larger Emerging Markets starting to operate more similarly to the developed markets. Can you just give us a little bit of a better sense in what regard that is? Is it in distribution, reimbursements, what is it specifically?

And are we talking about more similar to the US or more similar to Europe? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you. So on the cost of goods, about in terms of absorption, 50% of our plants are absorbed through the Value business and 50% are absorbed through the Innovative business. There are a limited number of clients that are specific to one business or the other. So I would expect that internally, it is simply a cross-supply issue between the plants. And if there was anything ever externally done, I think this is easily handled by supply agreements. Today, Pfizer purchases about 30% of its requirements from external suppliers so this is easily handled in the ordinary course of business.

The next question was on -- Europe and infrastructure. Look, the pricing squeeze that Europe has applied to the industry over the last few years which has accelerated from low-single-digits to mid-single-digits is of course pushing companies to look at what their infrastructure is, how they deliver the educational messages to the decision makers and their investment in general. Part of our restructuring into the Innovative one, Innovative two and the Value business are response to that in a sense that we effectively are merging our Primary Care and our Specialty BU into one. So I expect in Europe you'll continue to see pharmaceutical companies look for more cost-efficient ways to deliver their message to physicians.

And on the EM issue, I think if you look at it, Turkey, you can see Turkey has gone to a full reimbursement model more like Europe. There's very -- out-of-pocket has now become less important in Turkey. The government is more influential so they tend to be more dominant in the way they make acquisitions for pharmaceuticals and their pricing requests. In summary, I talked really about the way the markets have been internally regulated in terms of compliance, in terms of the rules that are similar in Europe and the US.

So I just see these markets evolving, and also you're beginning to see more commonality in the requirements they ask for registration. And that's really the sense in my comment about they're evolving to looking more like mature markets.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. And, operator, if we could please take our last question.

OPERATOR: Damien Conover, MorningStar.

DAMIEN CONOVER, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Great. Thanks for taking the questions. Just had a question on the restructuring. Wanted to see how products would flow from the Innovative pieces to the Value piece post-2014? And whether or not there would be any precedent set up for any sort of transfer of Value that could be used if the entities actually fully separated?

And then second question on the breakup was just had a question on the Consumer Health business. And if I remember correctly, one of the driving reasons to have that business within the Pfizer umbrella is to help with any sort of Rx to OTC switches. And given that it's going in the Vaccine and Oncology bucket, was still wanted to know if that Rx to OTC switch was still a major driving force behind that business thing underneath the Pfizer umbrella? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Damien. So I think the movement of products between the businesses will continue as they have been in the last three years. As products that are Innovative one go LOE, we'll move them over to the Value business. And they'll be managed that way.

In any hypothetical situation where there was -- the two businesses weren't in the same corporate shell, then you would make your decisions based on what's the best way to continue to commercialize those products at a later date. But that's really very early to speculate on. And the, Amy, would you like to take the Consumer?

AMY SCHULMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL AND BUSINESS UNIT LEAD CONSUMER BUSINESS, PFIZER INC: Sure. With respect to the pipeline that we have for Rx to OTC switches, we continue to feel very comfortable with the pipeline. It's robust and assuming regulatory approval, we will proceed with the Nexium launch in 2014. And then we have a number of other promising molecules in the pipeline, some of which we've talked about previously.

CHUCK TRIANO: Great.

IAN READ: Thank you, Amy.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Amy, and thank you, everybody, for your attention this morning.

IAN READ: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the Pfizer second quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | sant : San Antonio | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130806e97u0030d
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,406 words
   PD
30 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP, IR, PFIZER INC: Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's first-quarter 2013 performance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for our Consumer Business; and John Young, President and General Manager of Primary Care.

The slides that we'll be presenting can be viewed on our homepage by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance first quarter 2013, located in the investor presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page. Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussions during the call will include forward-looking statements, and actual results could differ materially. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K, and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Discussions will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and the reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today.

As we outlined in our Earnings Release, the IPO of a 19.8% interest in Zoetis was completed on February 6 of this year. Thus, effective February 7, the earnings attributable to the divested portion of Zoetis are excluded from adjusted and reported net income and diluted EPS in both our first-quarter results and our full-year 2013 guidance. We still retain an 80.2% ownership interest, so all Zoetis revenues and expenses continue to be included in first-quarter results, as well as in the financial guidance for the full year.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Chuck. I'll begin with some comments on the quarter. We've started the year continuing to create significant value for our shareholders. Specifically we completed a successful IPO of a minority interest in Zoetis and a related debt offering, and began returning those proceeds, as well as the proceeds from the sale of our Nutrition business to our shareholders through share repurchases. So far this year, we have repurchased approximately $6.3 billion of our shares. In addition, our focus on rebuilding and strengthening our innovative core is yielding results. During the quarter, we launched some significant products. Most noteworthy were the launch of Eliquis in the US, UK, Germany, Denmark, and Japan, and the launch of Xeljanz in the US. In addition, we recently approved approval for Xeljanz in Japan and Russia.

Regarding Eliquis, the market introduction since the launch is in line with our expectations. We continue to work with our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb on securing broader commercial, medical, and hospital formulary access. We expect to gain broader access as the year progresses, as we seek to establish Eliquis as the leading novel oral anti-coagulant in the market over time. We are very confident in Eliquis' clinical profile and our ability to translate that into a leading market position, given the new prescriptions we are seeing.

Regarding Xeljanz, we're encouraged by the early indications or indicators we're seeing with the US launch. Prescribing by rheumatologists is trending higher, and we are seeing that repeat prescribing is also trending higher, which suggests once a physician prescribes Xeljanz, they generally increase prescribing.

Importantly, we are seeing use in post-methotrexate and post-TNF patients at similar rates. Our full promotional campaign launched in March, and we plan to introduce DTC advertising this summer. In addition, we recently submitted the supplementary NDA for Xeljanz that was accepted for review by the FDA to include supportive patient reported outcomes data in the label.

Last week, we announced receiving a negative opinion for Xeljanz by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use in the EU. In the opinion letter to Pfizer, CHMP noted that tofacitinib is a new chemical treatment with a different mechanism of action to products already approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and that in their opinion the safety and efficacy of tofacitinib is not properly or sufficiently demonstrated.

We disagree with their opinion, and are seeking a reexamination. While history would show their reversal of such an opinion is not common, we feel compelled to further address the risk/benefit issues raised by the rapporters through this process. We believe the risk/benefit profile of Xeljanz has been well characterized to date with approximately 5,000 patients across Phase II and Phase III trials in more than 40 countries resulting in 7,000 patient years of exposure. The original application submitted to the EU was based on the same pivotal efficacy and safety data package that was provided to regulatory agencies around the world, and that has resulted in approvals in the US, Japan, and Russia.

This recent development in the EU does not change the status of Xeljanz as an approved treatment option in these markets. It is also under review in several additional countries, and we anticipate decisions this year in a number of those markets.

Turning to our Oncology business, we launched Bosulif in the EU, and saw good and improving performance from both Xalkori and Inlyta across the markets where these products have launched. Within our pipeline, we have shown steady improvement in the quality of the compounds and in the rate of progress in advancing these compounds. Of particular note is the Breakthrough Therapy designation that the FDA recently granted to palbociclib, our innovative new investigational compound for patients suffering from breast cancer.

Yesterday we announced a worldwide collaboration agreement with Merck, except in Japan, for the development and commercialization of ertugliflozoin, our investigational compound for the treatment of Type II diabetes. Phase III trials are expected to begin this year, which will examine both its use as monotherapy and in fixed dose combinations. We look forward to moving ahead with Merck in this area of significant unmet medical need.

And we have a robust vaccines portfolio that includes a vaccine for meningitis B for adolescents and young adults that is currently in Phase III. Earlier in the pipeline, we are working on prophylactic vaccines to reduce the risk of some of the most difficult hospital-acquired infections, such as staph aureus and c difficile, our next generation pneumococcal conjugated vaccine and therapeutic vaccines for smoking cessation and allergic respiratory diseases.

While we are seeing good momentum in our innovative core, our operating environment continues to be challenging, and at times volatile, due to ongoing pricing and macroeconomic issues. This quarter, our emerging markets revenue grew 6% operationally, but we were negatively impacted by certain events that included the timing of certain government purchases of Enbrel and the Prevnar franchise, and the transfer of some of our products to a joint venture in China with Hisun Pharmaceuticals. Let me note that we do expect that the second half of the year will be stronger for our emerging markets business, and on a full-year basis we continue expect it to deliver high single-digit operational revenue growth.

We also continue to demonstrate good fiscal discipline in managing our cost structure by continuing to align our costs with our revenue base. This quarter, we reduced our total adjusted cost of sales, SI&A expenses and R&D expenses by approximately 7% compared to a year ago. Overall, I believe our results demonstrate our continued financial flexibility in adapting to our current operating environment.

In a moment, Frank will provide you with more details on the quarter and what we expect for the full year. Before he does that, I want to point out that we expect to see data from several important clinical trials during the second half of this year. This includes CAPiTA data for Prevnar 13, which if positive may result in broader recommendations for adult usage following review by key vaccine's technical committees like the ACIP.

We also are expecting data from two Phase III programs for dacomitinib towards the end of this year. These programs involve patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer whose disease has progressed after prior treatment. Full data presentations are planned for a medical conference next year. And we're expecting data from Phase III studies of Xeljanz for the treatment of psoriasis by mid-year. If favorable, we expect to file early next year in the US and Japan for the Xeljanz psoriasis indication. Separately, we also anticipate beginning a Phase III psoriatic arthritis study for Xeljanz later this year. As you can see, depending on our clinical outcomes, Xeljanz has the potential to become a broad-based product franchise for our Specialty Care business.

Also later this year or early next, we will see the complete Phase II data for palbociclib for the treatment of breast cancer, and the associated assessment of progression-free survival and overall survival. We believe that palbociclib may represent an important potential treatment for this devastating disease, given the encouraging data we've already seen, and in February we began enrolling patients in a Phase III study evaluating palbociclib in combination with letrozole, for first line treatment of post-menopausal women with ER-positive HER2-negative advanced breast cancer. This represents 60% of cases among postmenopausal patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

Regarding our options relative to our 80% interest in Zoetis, we have not yet made a final determination. We are actively assessing the best options to maximize value for Pfizer shareholders in an expedient and efficient manner. As we shared with you over the course of the last year, with the sale of the Nutrition business and the successful IPO of a minority interest in Zoetis, we are building two strong businesses, an innovative core and a value core, each with distinct cost structures and operating drivers. We know it will take the next few years to fully realize the potential of each, and as each of these businesses progress, we will continue to evaluate how best to deliver their value to our shareholders.

In summary, throughout this year, we will continue to stay focused on building a substantial innovative core where we will use our capital in ways to deliver the greatest value to our shareholders. We will continue to manage our cost structure, we will press forward on our initiatives to help enhance our reputation with society, and we will focus on creating an ownership culture that helps drive results.

Now, I'll turn it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. Before I begin, I want to remind everyone that adjusted and reported net income and diluted EPS in both our first-quarter 2013 results and our updated 2013 guidance reflect the IPO of a 19.8% interest in Zoetis, which we completed on February 6, 2013. We still retain an 80.2% ownership interest, so all Zoetis revenues and expenses continue to be included in our first-quarter results and in financial guidance for the full year. However, effective February 7, 2013, the earnings attributable to the divested portion of Zoetis are excluded from first-quarter adjusted and reported net income and diluted EPS in both our first-quarter results and our full-year 2013 guidance.

Now let's move on to the financials. First-quarter 2013 revenues of approximately $13.5 billion decreased 9% year-over-year, reflecting a 1% negative impact from foreign exchange and an operational decline of approximately 8%, driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies, notably Lipitor in developed Europe during the second quarter of 2012 and Geodon in the US during the first quarter of 2012. The timing of government purchases of Enbrel and the Prevnar franchise in certain emerging markets, and of Prevnar 13 in the US, and the transfer of certain product rights to our joint venture in China with Hisun.

Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.54 decreased 5%, primarily due to the previously mentioned decrease in revenues, which was partially offset by an aggregate operational decrease of 7% in adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted R&D expenses, primarily resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives, a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding, due to our ongoing share repurchase program. I want to point out that our solid performance during the first quarter was unfavorably impacted by approximately $0.02 per share due to changes in foreign exchange rates versus the US dollar, including the devaluation of the Venezuelan boliviar since we first provided our full-year guidance in late January.

Reported diluted EPS was $0.38 compared with $0.24 in the year-ago quarter, and was favorably impacted by lower overall cost and lower certain other items, including non-acquisition-related restructuring costs and fewer shares outstanding, and unfavorably impacted primarily by the loss of exclusivity of certain products, as well as other factors impacting revenues previously mentioned.

During the first quarter, Biopharmaceutical volume growth of 10% in the BRIC-MT markets was primarily driven by strong growth in China, and partially offset by price reductions of 1% in these markets, resulting in operational revenue growth of 9%. If you exclude the portfolio of products whose rights were transferred to our joint venture in China with Hisun, our operational revenue growth would have been 8% in our Emerging Markets business, 14% in BRIC-MT countries, and 31% in China. In addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted BRIC-MT revenue by 1% in the first-quarter 2013.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter revenues by 1%, or $118 million, and had a net positive impact of $24 million in the aggregate on adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted first-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01 compared to the year-ago quarter.

We are reducing our 2013 reported revenue guidance range by $900 million, solely due -- solely to reflect the non-operational negative impact of the changes in foreign exchange rates versus the US dollar since mid-January. While most major currencies have worked against us since mid-January, approximately half of this unfavorable impact is attributable to the weakening of the Japanese yen versus the US dollar. I want to remind everyone that Japan is our second largest market, and represented 10% of our total revenues in 2012. In addition, the devaluation of the Venezuelan boliviar accounts for approximately 20% of the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange since mid-January.

Now moving on to our 2013 financial guidance. I want to emphasize again that our guidance for this year reflects the completion of the IPO of a 19.8% interest in Zoetis and the resulting non-controlling interest. All Zoetis full-year revenues and expenses are included in our guidance, but the earnings attributable to the 19.8% divested portion are excluded from both adjusted and reported diluted EPS guidance beginning on February 7, 2013.

As I just mentioned, we've lowered the upper and lower ends of our reported revenue guidance range by $900 million, or approximately 1.6%, due to foreign exchange movements since mid-January. We've lowered our adjusted diluted EPS range from $2.20 to $2.30 to $2.14 to $2.24 to reflect the aforementioned changes in foreign exchange rates and the completion of the Zoetis IPO, and we've lowered our reported diluted EPS range from $1.50 to $1.65 to $1.44 to $1.59 to reflect these same factors, as well as some other offsetting factors. Approximately $0.04 of this EPS decrease in adjusted and reported diluted EPS guidance ranges is due to the non-operational, unfavorable impact of changes in foreign exchange rates from mid-January to mid-April on our full-year guidance, which includes the weakening of the Japanese yen and our basket of other currencies versus the US dollar, but excludes the $0.02 negative impact from the devaluation of the Venezuelan boliviar, which we are absorbing.

Approximately $0.02 of the decrease in the adjusted and diluted EPS guidance ranges is due to the elimination of the non-controlling interest of Zoetis. To be clear, excluding this $0.02 non-operational impact related to the non-controlling interest of Zoetis, had foreign exchange rates remained constant, we would be reaffirming our initial full year 2013 revenue in reported and adjusted diluted EPS guidance.

Moving on to key takeaways. First-quarter results were unfavorably impacted by the loss of exclusivity of several products in various geographies, and the expected volatility in emerging markets. As we've previously stated, because of this volatility, we anticipate our performance in that business to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. That said, we continue to expect high single-digit operational revenue growth in emerging markets in 2013, with the majority of this growth occurring in second half of the year. We continue to mitigate the earnings impact of product LOEs with both expense discipline and share repurchases. We received approximately $6 billion of proceeds from the successful completion of the IPO of a 19.8% interest in Zoetis and a related debt offering. We've updated our 2013 financial guidance to reflect the negative impact of foreign exchange rate changes since mid-January, and the completion of the Zoetis IPO, among other non-operational factors.

During the first quarter, we launched Xeljanz and Eliquis in the US, and Eliquis in several developed markets in the EU, as well as in Japan. We remain excited about the potential of our mid- to late-stage pipeline, and we continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. To date in 2013, we have repurchased approximately $6.3 billion, or 227 million shares. And we have approximately $5.5 billion of authorization remaining under the current repurchase program. I want to point out that since 2010, we have repurchased nearly 1.1 billion shares of our common stock. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2013 and beyond.

With that, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Great. Thanks for the review, Frank. With that operator, can we please poll for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Yes, sir.

(Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from Chris Schott of JP Morgan. Please go ahead.

IAN READ: Good morning, Chris.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good morning, everybody. Just two for you guys.

First, Ian, you mentioned it's going to take several years for you to fully develop your innovative and value cores. As you consider how to best realize value from these divisions for your shareholders, should we think about the decision on that as something that could occur in the nearer term, or do we really have to wait a couple years to see how these businesses evolve before you'll have a better sense of the profiles of each?

My second question was on palbociclib. Just thoughts on what Breakthrough Designation means here, the potential of file with Phase II data, and can you talk a little bit about the early breast cancer opportunity, when we should expect to hear more about that?

Thank you very much.

IAN READ: Okay, thanks, Chris.

I'll deal with the two business, core businesses, and then I'll ask Geno to deal with the palbo question. I think what we're saying is that we believe there are two core businesses. We are going to -- we look at this year as a year, as a decision year on how to structure those, how to indicate to you, to give you further visibility, and then simply the work involved in order to have those businesses as entities with enough financial information to make decisions, when we're ready to make them would take two to three years, because of the complexity of separating out the businesses.

So, what we would like to do at some point in time, and we'll take that decision this year, is to start to operate more independently those businesses, give you more visibility as shareholders, and then assess what are the advantages and disadvantages of having these two core businesses housed in the same entity or not. And at that point, as we see that happen, and frankly as we see the innovative core's pipeline mature, and as we take steps to continue to strengthen value co's ability to have product growth inside certain segments of its product offering, that will inform our decision.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT & GM, SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC: Okay. So Chris, just a couple comments on palbociclib. I think you're probably familiar with the Breakthrough Designation now. This a new designation that the FDA has to increase or intensify their focus on programs where early clinical signals are compelling for conditions that are serious and life-threatening, and certainly palbociclib falls into that category, and it was encouraging to see FDA give the designation to palbociclib recently. So we look forward to continued engagement with the FDA on the program. As you know, the Phase II trial is still ongoing. We're anticipating completion around the end of this year, or sometime in the second half.

It is an event-driven trial. So, in a way, the longer that it takes, it's possible that patients are actually surviving longer and without progression in the palbociclib arm, which could be a very good thing. So, we're just going to have to wait until we achieve the required number of events, and we'll report out as soon as we have results ready for disclosure.

With regard to the early stage trial, we're actually working on two additional Phase III trials now, one for earlier stage high risk patients, as well as for advanced recurrent patients, and our expectation is that we'll initiate those trials in the second half of this year, as well. So, we'll provide more color once we reach that point.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno. Operator, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you, Frank. I have a question for you. I guess I'm confused about something related to the Zoetis IPO. Can you walk us through the dynamics of your 20% stake that you sold through the IPO, and how the $6 billion in proceeds from that, which were being allocated to share repurchases, would not have allowed you to report accretion from your sale of Zoetis? Instead you're reporting $0.02 of dilution.

So I'm just confused about that. I would just think with the IPO proceeds, and given your market cap, or rather your PE multiple, that this would have been pretty meaningfully accretive. And then secondly, can you talk about your current plans for the 80% Zoetis stake? I understand, as Ian said, that you haven't yet decided when or how, but if you could talk about maybe how you're thinking about allocating those proceeds as well?

Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Okay. So, on the first question, let me walk through this in a couple of steps, Jami. So first, on the last earnings call, I mentioned that our current year guidance, the 2013 guidance, assumed mid-teens in the billions share buybacks. So that was already factored into the guidance. That mid-teens billions in buybacks made assumptions about the Nutri cash proceeds, as well as the Animal Health IPO and debt offering proceeds, point one.

Point two, remember, when we're buying back shares, we don't get the full year benefit of those shares from the EPS calculation in year. It's a weighted average calculation. So, the full year benefit of those buybacks will actually take place in 2014. Point three, if we were to do something with the second step on Zoetis, and you assume that there was a share reduction from that, it would clearly be when you netted it all out accretive.

The reason you're seeing that $0.02 decrease in earnings today is simply a timing issue, is the way that I think about it. So hopefully that explains the steps relative to why you saw the $0.02. It's really timing, that you're not getting the full year benefit of the shares we repurchased this year, and the fact that we had already planned for mid-teen billions in buybacks that we should taken into account Nutri and the first step on Animal Health.

In terms of current plans for Zoetis and our remaining 80.2%, a couple of comments. First, we haven't made any decisions to date. Second, we have several alternatives available to us per the IRS ruling, and we continue to monitor our market conditions. Third, there are no operational barriers that would prevent us from proceeding with a potential second step. And then lastly, our compass, our goal remains the same, which is to maximize after-tax return to our shareholders.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Operator, next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Goodman of UBS. Please go ahead.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes. I was hoping you could talk about Xeljanz a little bit more, and what's going on behind the scenes in the US and the launch there, and how it's progressing, and talk about the reimbursement that you have now, and how that's going to change. And then second of all, on the Oncology products that you've launched, Xalkori and Inlyta, if you could just give us a little bit of an update there, Geno, and just how those are progressing, and what kind of patients have been already penetrated, and how much is left there? And then third, when is the staph vaccine trials going to read out? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay, I'll ask, as you say, as you requested, Geno to answer the Xeljanz and any Oncology questions, and Mikael can give you some update on the staph read out.

GENO GERMANO: Yes. I guess for Xeljanz in the US, we're pretty pleased with the way things are going right now. We're seeing a continued adoption of the drug, fairly broadly now across the rheumatology community. We have somewhere around 1200, 1300 physicians who have initiated patient trials, and about two-thirds of them are repeat prescribers. So we see this nice trend, week after week after week increase in number of physicians with experience. We know from our Phase III trials with the patient reported outcomes and the efficacy, that patients are likely to be very satisfied, and we're already hearing from some rheumatologists that they are hearing back from their patients that their early experience has been very favorable. So I think of it as a so far, so good situation.

As Ian mentioned in his opening comments, we really just kind of got off the tracks on our full launch in March with speaker programs, with sales representatives, with promotional materials in their hands, with additional medical support in the field, and in the middle of the summer, beginning of summer we expect to launch our DTC. So we're right where we need to be. We see the trajectory of our launch comparing favorably to other recent launches. We're a little ahead of most of the other products that have launched in this category. So again, we like what we see.

With regard to reimbursement, initially we had probably broader reimbursement support than we anticipated. Everyone just seemed to agree to pass through reimbursement. Over the last couple months, we've seen more managed care players doing their full assessments and making decisions on formulary placement, and we're getting the formulary placement we would expect. There will be prior authorization required for this medicine, just like there is for all of the medicines in the RA category. And so I think we have now formal reimbursement decisions made for lives totaling about 60 million, and continued.

There will be a continuation of evaluation by plans as we go into the summer. So again, that's looking okay, and then finally, just to reiterate another point that Ian made in his comments. What we're seeing in terms of patients is we're seeing about an even split in patients that are post-methotrexate and patients who are post-TNF. So we're getting both second line and third line patients in the early experience so far.

So that's Xeljanz. With regard to Xalkori and Inlyta, again, we're continuing to make progress in there. Inlyta in the first quarter, we did $63 million in the quarter. We're seeing real good uptake in second line, which is the indicated position for that product. We have about 26% share in the second line. In Europe, where we launched later last year, we know about half the physicians now who treat patients with renal cell carcinoma have had an experience with Inlyta. So, the uptake there is on track. And in Japan, we've had a very robust uptake. It's actually the number one product for renal cell in Japan. So Inlyta is off to a good start. Good feedback on patient tolerability, which is what we expected the benefit to be. So again, so far so good there.

With Xalkori, we had a $53 million first quarter, up about 20% from the last quarter, which is, again, good progress. ALK testing continues to improve. In the first quarter of this year, new guidelines were published for ALK testing, we think will be helpful in setting standards for who to test and how to get through the diagnostic in an expeditious manner. So we think that that can have a benefit. And we're actually seeing now, that we are getting healthier patients on Xalkori, a good duration of therapy. So all the indicators are on track with Xalkori as well, and maybe I'll hand it over to Mikael to comment on staph aureus.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC: Marc, thank you for your interest in our staph aureus vaccine. We are expecting data readout from our proof-of-concept study later this year. It's really a first-in-class vaccine which contains four components carefully selected to, on one hand, two of them allow immune-mediated clearance of bacteria, while the two others are selected to inhibit the growth of the bacteria, including proprietary antigens that we have identified. The vaccine is designed to act on antibiotic-resistant and antibiotic sensitive staph aureus, and we are quite enthusiastic about this potential new approach to deal with the threat of a difficult to treat staph aureus.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Marc, I'd just add that Xeljanz sales in the quarter were $11 million, and with that, operator, can we go to the next question?

OPERATOR: Yes, the next question is from Gregg Gilbert of Banc of America. Please go ahead.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, thank you.

Quickly on the Merck deal, should we view this as a step in the direction of Pfizer wanting to have a full-fledged diabetes effort covering several classes of drugs, or just a way to share costs and risk for one product area? Secondly on capital deployment, your dividend yield is at the lower end of the major pharma average at this point, certainly due to strong stock performance, but your payout ratio is also somewhat lower than average. Was curious if you had any updated thoughts on the balance between dividends, buybacks and business development, or if not, when can we expect an update? And lastly, in the pain area, in light of the recent FDA actions on abuse deterrent opioids, I was hoping you could update us on your current thinking on Remoxy and the ALO product in the oxycodone space, as well as Embeda in the morphine space? It seems like there's quite an opportunity there to cannibalize generics and generate a lot of revenue if you can get Embeda back on track.

Thanks.

IAN READ: Thanks for your questions. A lot on your agenda.

On the Merck deal, we have a large effort in CV Med. We continue to do research in diabetes and in areas around those conditions. I think this was a great opportunity for us to partner with a product that could not be at a backbone of monotherapy, and we continue to remain focused on CV Med opportunities. John, do you want to add a little bit more on what you see of this partnership?

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT & GM, PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC: Yes, thanks for the question, Gregg.

I think first thing to say is, we really are very excited about the opportunity of this collaboration with Merck to develop and commercialize ertugliflozin and ertugliflozin-containing fixed dose combinations with metformin and Januvia. It's a proprietary innovative SGLT 2 inhibitor for the treatment of Type II diabetes, which as you know, is a huge unmet clinical need and one that is growing. We expect to begin Phase III trials later in 2013, and we think that the clinical profile and differentiated mode of action has the potential to really compliment the market-leading therapeutic profile of Januvia brought to the collaboration by Merck. So overall we think, as Ian said, this is a very positive opportunity, and one that really gives us a great entry point for the ongoing research effort that we have in cardiovascular metabolic.

Maybe just to pick up on your question on pain and opioids as well. Clearly, its been an interesting last few months with some of the decisions that the FDA have made, which I think is really a recognition of some of the challenges that we have here in the United States with the abuse of opioids. I think the decision, along with the guidelines that the Agency issued in January, really helped to inform our development strategies, specifically with Embeda. As we said last quarter, the required stability programs are already underway.

We're working towards the submission of a prior approval supplement for Embeda in 2013, and we believe that Embeda, subject to successful completion of those stability programs, will be commercially available in the first half of 2014. For Remoxy, we had a productive meeting with the FDA in March. And the guidance that we got out of that meeting is certainly helping to inform the next steps in addressing the issues that the FDA raised previously in their complete response letter. We believe we have a path forward, and we will publicly communicate further details over coming quarters.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. Frank, do you want to take the total shareholder return question?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So Gregg, let me run the numbers first, and then I'll give you a little more color commentary. So the payout ratio for the quarter was 44%, right? $0.24 on the dividend over $0.54. So 44% payout ratio for Pfizer. If you look at what we've done with the dividend since the acquisition of Wyeth, right? When we announced Wyeth, we cut the dividend from $1.28 to $0.64. Since then, we've raised it from $0.64 to $0.72, $0.72 to $0.80, $0.80 to $0.88, then $0.88 to $0.96. So 12.5%, 11%, 10%, and 9% increases respectively, just in terms of running the numbers.

In terms of what we'll do going forward with the dividend, is every year in December, Ian and I make a recommendation to the Board of Directors, and then once we get approval from the Board of Directors, we obviously announce that to the investment community literally that day or the next day. So that's the game plan for the dividend on a going-forward basis.

In terms of just capital priorities, capital deployment priorities, from my perspective they remain the same. So first and foremost in terms of total shareholder return, we understand the importance of dividends and buybacks. So that clearly remains a priority. Investing in the business, whether that be with R&D programs, capital expenditures, launch costs associated with our new products, continue to invest in the business, business development will be an area that we continue to look at, the amount of cash that we repatriate overseas. So, all of the things that I've talked about previously, and I think what's most important is, because of the amount of cash that we generate from operations, we have the ability to do all these things, which is really -- it's a nice luxury to have. So that's how I'd answer the question.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Tim Anderson of Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. A couple of questions. You talked about Prevnar being weak in Q1 due to timing. That would imply we should see a rebound in Q2 through Q4, such that on a full year basis we'll still see growth across the franchise. Is that a correct way of looking at it?

And then the second question relates to the mechanics of potentially breaking up the Company further. You mentioned recently that one of the things that would be needed to do this is three years of audited financials. My question is whether that three-year clock has started yet, and if not, does that mean that the earliest anything could happen, in terms of actually accomplishing the split, would be 2016, or can you look backwards and satisfy some of that three-year period versus it being fully forward-looking?

IAN READ: Tim, thank you. So I just want to emphasize firstly that I believe we do have two operating models, two core business in the Company. The first order of business is to find a model where we can separate them and give the management the ability to run those businesses with as much authority and independence as necessary, and to judge if those businesses inside Pfizer can fulfill what we believe is their full potential, and where the shareholders see the potential of those businesses, and value them fully inside that combination.

If we decided, or came to the conclusion, that there were further benefits from a split of those businesses, and that decision has not been taken. I believe the earliest we could do that would be in '16. And as I say, this year we're studying how best to report out the results, and how complicated it will be for us to start generating different P&Ls, and even potentially balance sheets. So, that's the situation where we are, and we will give you more color on when and how later on this year.

With that, I would turn it over to Geno for this comments.

GENO GERMANO: Yes, Tim.

Just on the Prevnar, I think actually you have it right. I think our first quarter was impacted by some inventory differences compared to the first quarter last year, primarily with the CDC purchases, some stockpile purchases last year in the first quarter. And even in the private market we saw slightly lower inventories in the first quarter this year compared to the first quarter last year. That will probably even out as we go through the year. Those decreases relative to last year, offset a little bit by some price increase that we had for this year in the US in the first quarter, and a little bit of adult business that started to creep in.

So all-in-all, I think the business is stable in Europe. We're actually up about 3% for the first quarter, reflecting a better pricing situation in the UK. And for emerging markets, rest of world, we're off again slightly in the first quarter this year related to purchase timing primarily. The fundamentals of the business are very sound. The only NIP that we don't have this year that we had before is Morocco. It's about a $9 million impact. So, we're on pretty solid ground with Prevnar. I expect we will see strength as we go through the rest of the year.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Mark Schoenebaum of ISI Group. Please go ahead.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hey, guys. Thanks a lot for taking the question.

On Xeljanz, if the appeal doesn't work out and you end up refiling, what new data would you have that would allow a refiling? And the second question is on PD991. Given the mechanism of action, I guess there's a reasonable -- it's reasonable that it may work across different tumor types, and I'm wondering if you've seen strong signals, Dolsten -- Mikael, outside of breast? And then just finally on the EM, you mentioned EM, you thought growth would pick up in the second half, and I was looking for a little bit of color on that, why you think that's going to happen?

Thanks a lot.

IAN READ: Geno, if you could deal with the Xeljanz, and then I'll have Mikael talk about palbo, and Olivier talk about EM.

GENO GERMANO: Yes. So Mark, so Xeljanz in Europe, as we've indicated, we're going to go through a re-examination process. We hope to be able to clarify some of the issues that that were raised by CHMP and either eliminate the majority of them or some of them so that we can focus our follow-up activities on the areas that are of most interest or concern to the CHMP.

We would probably spend more effort analyzing and reanalyzing data that we have to complete a new filing. We would have some additional data from our 1069 study, the two-year data, which would be new, and we would have updated safety tables from ongoing long-term extension trials as primarily the new data that we would put into the filing. But I think it has more to do with going deeper into some of the areas that the CHMP has asked about, and I think we can do some of that with just stronger analysis of some of the databases that we've already discussed.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: So on palbociclib, and Mark we appreciate your interest in how this drug could be fully developed. Yes, certainly we are exploring opportunities in a number of different tumor segments, and we have preclinical and some early clinical signs that this mechanism can have important outcome also in other tumors. We are starting now, or are thinking on starting, across a number of segment from melanoma to squamous cell carcinoma in a variety of different locations, which can include head, head and neck, lung, esophageal tumors. I would like, though, to underline that given the strength of palbociclib in ER-positive breast cancer and amount of understanding we have got on importance of this drug in breast cancer, as Geno outlined, this year we are starting three different breast cancer trials, advanced ER-positive breast, early breast cancer that are ER-positive and recurrent.

But in addition to that, there are more segments in the ER-positive that we are considering as opportunities, which can include medium to low risk ER-positive breast, and also within the HER2 segments, substantial proportion, also carry the ER-positive signature. So Mark, given the very strong signal in breast, it's compelling to consider that just the breast cancer ER-positive segment alone obviously have potential to make these one of the most impactful drugs, in addition to exploring other tumors, as you asked for.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, PRESIDENT & GM, EMERGING MARKETS AND ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER INC: Okay Mark, coming to emerging markets, you heard Ian and Frank talking about the one-time event of government purchases of Enbrel in Brazil and Prevnar in Mexico and some countries in Africa and Middle East. Those had significant impact on the growth for the quarter. And taking those events out, the underlying growth is more like 10% for EM, and something around 14% for BRIC-MT countries. So reason why we are expecting better second half in term of growth rate is due to the fact that we are still expecting to get the full year purchase order of those medicines, and I'm talking NIP, Prevnar, and Enbrel, but the timing would be pushed for the second half of the year.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks. Next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Steve Scala of Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Okay. I have a few questions. What was the rationale for designing CAPiTA without a comparison arm with Pneumovax, and without such a comparison, do you believe you can still get an ACIP approval? Secondly, does the ongoing Phase III Palbo trial have an interim look built in, and if so, when would we get that data? And then thirdly on Xeljanz, I appreciate it's early days, but of the $11 million in Q1, how much of that was pipeline stocking? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. Geno, would you like to take all three? I mean, the CAPiTA trial design, the palbo, and the Xeljanz?

GENO GERMANO: Yes. The CAPiTA trial design was obviously discussed with regulators. This is a postmarketing commitment for the accelerated review in the United States. So this is a trial design that's been thoroughly discussed and agreed upon with the FDA, and the decision to not include Pneuomax in the -- as a competitor arm, I think was related to the fact that there's a lack of evidence that there's a Pneumovax affect on community-acquired pneumonia. But essentially, it was an agreed-upon protocol with the regulators. We do believe that with positive data, that we will be able to demonstrate, or reach agreement on a favorable recommendation from ACIP.

So, with the Palbociclib Phase III trial, there is a provision for an interim look. I don't know what the timing on that is, so I can't give you a date. We'll have to follow up with you, Steve on that.

And with Xeljanz, of the $11 million, almost none of it is pipeline stocking. We put very small amount of product in the marketplace at the end of last year. Because of the cost and the Specialty Pharmacy management of a drug like this, there are not large inventories out there.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Andrew Baum of Citi. Please go ahead.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. Three questions, please. Firstly on palbociclib, you mentioned the recurrent breast cancer trial you're running. Just to understand the trial design, are you looking at adding the drug on top of Afinitol, or looking at it in a head-to-head design? Second, are you looking at the development of palbociclib with concomitant chemotherapy in select hemotypes using the drug as a chemoprotectant, which as an idea has been suggested by some? And then finally on Xeljanz, could you just outline the rapporteur and co-rapporteur, whether the possibility exists for seeking individual rather than central approval, if you do in fact perceive the rejection from your ongoing appeal?

IAN READ: Thank you, Andrew. I'll ask Mikael to answer the palbo questions, and then perhaps Geno could talk a bit about the Xeljanz and the European Union.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, so concerning palbo, our Phase II study was on top of letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor. We do think that the unique opportunity with palbociclib is, to a large extent, to delay the need, or replace the need, for chemotherapy with all its burden on patients. So, our treatment designs for the advanced and recurrent involves the use of additional hormone blockade beyond letrozole, and particular for the recurrent, we are keen on the opportunity to add a drug on top of fulvestrant, which you may know has been used and demonstrated to be an agent that can have some intrinsic activity, even after hormone receptive blockade is diminished by receptive-antagonist by having additional receptive degradation of the estrogen pathway. But we haven't excluded opportunity for certain chemo combinations, but we are even more enthusiastic about the ability to give profound treatment effect without the severe side effect of chemo treatment.

IAN READ: Great. Thank you very much. Geno?

GENO GERMANO: Okay, Andrew. I think your question was related to the opportunity, or the potential to go forward with individual country registrations versus the central approach in the event that we're not successful with the reevaluation. Certainly there's an opportunity to explore that option, but we are not at a point yet where we're prepared to make that decision.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from David Risinger of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thank you. I have a couple of questions, please.

First, with respect to separating established products, could you just explain to us some of the operational changes that you're making? For example, I think you've mentioned in the past that you're moving some lines of manufacturing to different parts of facilities. But, if you could go into more detail on operationally what action is being taken, that would be helpful.

And second, with respect to the possibility of exiting the business, I'm just curious about whether you need the three years of financials to be able to do a tax-free spinoff and that's why you're looking at a three-year timeline, or whether you could exit the business sooner through a simple sale of the business? Or would that just be too difficult from a tax standpoint to exit the segment through a sale prior to having three years of audited financials?

Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you.

Well, on separating the business, we already have separated the management in the US and in developed markets. The key question that we're looking at is in our BRIC-MT and our emerging markets that are very successful and growing aggressively, what would we need to do to separate out, and what would be the dynamics of that, of separating out, and what portfolio would we separate out so as to create an innovative core and a value core, and how would we allocate capabilities and assets within that. This is not a sort of trivial undertaking in an organization that's already performing so well.

And then the second part would be, clearly on the manufacturing side we would want to try and identify plants that are purely of a value or established products co-type plants, and there have to be independencies, and you look at that, and then you also have to look at the tax issues as you do that.

So this is, we believe, worth doing. I believe it's worth creating that separation internally, because I think it brings focus and management focus, and will improve the performance of those two businesses. But it's something that we're doing carefully, given that it's a sort of a reorganization, or a potential reorganization of emerging markets that is being so successful as is, but certainly that's some of the considerations as we go to look at this separation. Now, I'll ask Frank to talk about the timing and the mechanics of that, but I would just add that if, under your hypothetical scenario of a buyer, I'm sure the buyer would want to see P&Ls and balance sheets.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And Dave, I think what I'll add to what Ian said is, when we talk about the three years, it's really a path that's similar to what we did -- if we were to do it, a path that's similar to like the Animal Health path, where basically it's a path that we're doing it ourselves, and we set ourselves up in a position to be able to do whatever kind of optionality we want on a standalone basis. But that's what we think about when we talk about the three years.

IAN READ: So the underlying thesis of this is that we have an innovative core, which is focused on science and focused on selling and delivering education in a certain way, and would have an exciting pipeline that would drive substantial growth, and certain shareholders would have an appeal for that type of investment. And then we would have a value company which has substantial cash flows, large dividend capacity, big brands in emerging markets, more of a traditional selling model, also with branded generics. But also we want to take time, as we go through the next couple of years, to see how do we strengthen both of those segments. We're strengthening innovative core with a pipeline. We also want to look at how do we strengthen the value business at the same time. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Seamus Fernandez of Leerink. Please go ahead

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Thanks very much. So just wanted to check in on BD. Historically you've discussed primarily tuck-in acquisitions, Frank. Maybe you can just give us -- reiterate the thresholds, or give us the thresholds that you're thinking about in that regard. Also historically you've talked about interest in the sterile injectable space as a potential area of interest. Can you just update us on that as well?

And then lastly, on psoriasis and the indication for -- potential indication for Xeljanz, can you just give us a sense of the dose used in the oral studies, as well as the pursuit of a topical formulation? And I'm more asking that in the context of safety questions that have been raised, at least by the CHMP. Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Geno, could you answer the psoriasis question?

GENO GERMANO: Yes. So for the psoriasis program, our Phase II trial we used a 5-milligram and a 15-milligram dose, and I think those results have been disclosed. In the Phase III, we have the 5-milligram and 10-milligram doses, both administered b.i.d. And, again, you'll -- we'll be seeing readouts the middle of this year on those trials. We are working on topical formulation, and intend to initiate a Phase II trial with the topical formulation this year.

IAN READ: Okay, on BD, I'd just like to preface a few comments and make a few comments, then pass it over to Frank. Our view on BD has always been that it's not a strategy, it's an enabler, and we will do BD if we see a clear path to increasing shareholder value. So we've always said never say never to big deals, and we've said we're looking at bolt-on deals. Well frankly, any deal where we felt that there was a convincing argument that we would add value to our shareholders. So Frank, do you want to make more comments to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, I think what I would say is just to punctuate Ian's comments is, from my perspective, although we never say never, the strategy remains bolt-on acquisitions. And when you say the thresholds, in my mind the target areas are our priority therapeutic areas, inflammation and immunology, pain, oncology, CV Med, Neuroscience, emerging markets.

You've seen us do -- take actions in the emerging markets, more on a local basis, when you see what we've done there, and then established products, which by the way, comprises a major part of our Emerging Markets business, and that includes things like reformulations, for example, which was the Quillivant transaction with NextWave. So those have been the strategies, those continue to be the strategies, and always with the focus being how do we create shareholder value.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Alex Arfaei of BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Thank you for taking the question. First a question for Frank in cost cutting. I think last year you characterized it as being in the middle innings. I was wondering if you could update us and let us know which inning we're in now? And then a follow-up on Xeljanz for Geno. Could you talk about your sampling strategy, and would you characterize it as aggressive? And could that perhaps dampen sales a little bit, and when do you expect those patients to come back to their physician to perhaps get a prescription? Thank you.

IAN READ: Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So last year I did say middle innings. If you looked at what we saved operationally last year in terms of our total cost and expense base, it was almost $4 billion in operational savings. I think the exact number was about $3.8 billion. I think we've clearly entered the late innings. So I think we're entering the seventh inning right now. Still opportunities to further reduce cost. I think you saw that again this quarter. Adjusted cost and expenses were down operationally $545 million, 7%, but I think when you look at kind of the continuum, the rhythm, I think we've entered, just started entering the late innings.

IAN READ: Xeljanz?

GENO GERMANO: Yes. So Alex, the program that we put out there for Xeljanz, there were two sampling programs. One is a 14-day sample that's primarily managed through our patient support program to help patients get started on therapy right away while they are going through the prior authorization process. So that's a 14-day relatively short-term program.

And then we gave select physicians a series of 28-day patient starters. So again, they could get some early experience. It's very difficult for us to track the utilization of those samples. So it's difficult for me to say whether or not I think that's influencing the uptake, and I'm not sure I would call it aggressive. I think we were somewhat pointed in the way we distributed those samples. So, we'll see how things play out.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno. Next question please?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Tony Butler of Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much.

Just briefly one question on -- or two parts to Eliquis. One is around overall spend there. Do you feel, and I realize it's an early launch, that the overall spend so far has been, as you've predicted, sufficient for the initial launch? And the second issue is, assuming the six-month moratorium on DTC is over, do you anticipate a direct-to-consumer campaign, much like occurs with Rivaroxaban? Thank you very much.

IAN READ: Thank you Tony. John?

JOHN YOUNG: Okay. Thanks for the question, Tony.

So, I think the first point to make is that, along with our partners BMS, we've been very thoughtful about making sure that we're very focused on our investment, but we are also mindful of the very competitive nature of this market and resourcing. What we remain convinced is, actually, a really significant opportunity to improve the outcomes for patients with the indications that we've researched thus far.

So we've deployed our resources that have made sure that we are competitive. In addition to just this year spend, I think the other thing that both companies bring is, obviously, a strong heritage in cardiovascular medicine between Pfizer and BMS, which we believe is a real positive advantage for us in the marketplace.

And our expectations for Eliquis are broadly in line with launches. Ian mentioned in his opening comments, we always have known this was going to be an opportunity that was going to require us to displace our competitor in warfarin that's been in the marketplace for 50 years. But we are very positive about the progress that we've made thus far, and certainly what we've seen as a trend in the marketplace that has Eliquis pretty much on track for, actually, the second NOAC to enter, Xarelto.

In terms of DTC specifically, you're absolutely right. We are currently in that six-month moratorium period, but certainly as an alliance, we would, once we have come out of that moratorium period, subject obviously to clearance by both OPDP and FDA, we would certainly have plans to initiate a DTC campaign in the US to enable us to communicate the benefit/risk of Eliquis to patients and we are very positive of that as being a further opportunity that will kick in in the second half of the year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, John. Next question please?

OPERATOR: The next question is from Jeff Holford of Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: All of my questions have been answered, thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Michael Tong of Wells Fargo.

MICHAEL TONG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thanks, just one quick question on the R&D side. If I look at Inlyta and Xalkori, nice to see the ramp coming up, but in the overall scheme of thing, still a relatively modest contributor to the top line. So maybe for Frank or Mike, as you think about capital allocation within the R&D segment, where are you allocating your R&D dollars? Maybe perhaps give us an idea of how you're splitting between Primary Care and Specialty Care at the moment, and where you think it might be in two to three years time?

IAN READ: Well, thanks for the question. We have TAs, which we've broadly stated we are spending on, which is oncology, and vaccines, and inflammation, and immunology, CV Med, oncology, pain, and that's where we're dividing our spend, and we're dividing it as we see opportunities that occur in the science. I personally am excited about what we see coming out of our Oncology portfolio, and I think they have the potential to be a large driver on our revenue as we go forward, as does the vaccine segment where we're investing in, which really basically we started investing from a standing start after acquiring Wyeth. They had one large and good vaccine, but since then we've really building up a portfolio of vaccines. So perhaps Mikael may just want to comment briefly on the more interesting Oncology projects.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. So, overall Oncology is our largest investment in R&D, slightly above 20% of the R&D investments, followed by immunology/inflammation, just slightly below that. And then a number of the other core areas are somewhere between 10% to 20%. And we tried to do regularly capital allocation by looking at what's in the pipeline, what is looking most promising, and where we see return of investment going forward. So it's certainly not carved in stone, but as we do cross the business in R&D allocation to maximize output.

Particularly in Oncology, we have, after the successful launch of three products. In recent one to two years, we now have a second wave that we are very excited about. On one hand, dacomitinib that will generate data within the next period of this year or the next year, inotuzimab for blood cancer, and of course palbociclib, as we spoke a lot about today. But behind that, we have other interesting Oncology drugs, such as smoothened inhibitor for multiple blood cancers and P13K mTOR, and for that we'll have readout over the next couple of years in several solid tumors. So it's quite the rich portfolio in oncology, immunology, vaccines, and across the various therapeutic areas.

IAN READ: Thank you Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks Mikael. If we could take our last question, please operator?

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Damien Conover of Morningstar.

DAMIEN CONOVER, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Thanks for taking the question. Just one question on the strategic deployment of capital to research and development. As the pipeline has shown a lot of strength in productivity over the years, a lot of that strength is coming from the R&D spend where the spend was much higher. As you look forward, are you comfortable with around 12% of sales going to R&D, in keeping this high productivity going -- to keep it going over the long term? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you for the question. We're very confident with our capital allocation. We simply have the right balance allocated to research right now, and it obviously depends upon opportunities that come in the pipeline. If large opportunities come that look very promising and require substantially more resources, then we would not shrink from putting those resources there, assuming we believe in the opportunities. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks Ian, and thanks everyone for your attention this morning.

OPERATOR: This does conclude the conference. You may all disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc | ahp : Wyeth LLC
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130507e94u0030e
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,015 words
   PD
29 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's fourth-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC: Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth-quarter and full-year 2012 performance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for our Consumer business; and John Young, President and General Manager of Primary Care. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance fourth quarter 2012 located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The discussions during this call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, January 29, 2013.

In addition, we will offer some brief comments regarding the potential IPO of a minority stake in our Animal Health business, Zoetis. As I'm sure you will understand, we are not going to be able to respond to questions on that subject in light of the quiet period imposed by the securities laws. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Chuck, and good morning, everyone. During my remarks this morning, I will briefly recap the progress we made in 2012 improving the performance of our innovative core and in creating value for our shareholders. I'll also discuss our focus for 2013.

2012 was a year of very strong operational financial performance, especially given our LOE challenges. We drove operational growth in many of our key products in the patent-protected portfolio, including Lyrica, Enbrel, Prevnar 13, Celebrex, and Sutent. Operationally, Emerging Markets grew 12%, Animal Health grew 6%, and the Consumer business grew 8%. Also during 2012, we executed on our plans for allocating capital in ways that enhanced shareholder value. We reduced our total adjusted cost of sales, SI&A, and R&D expenses on an operational basis by approximately 10%, which is nearly a $4 billion reduction versus 2011 levels. We realized significant value for our shareholders through the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestle for $11.85 billion, and we're on track, subject to market conditions, to unlock value from our Animal Health business by completing our IPO of Zoetis in the near future. And we returned nearly $15 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Our focus on creating a productive and sustainable innovative core is yielding results.

Our fourth quarter was highlighted by two important product approvals, Xeljanz in the US, and Eliquis in the US, Canada, the EU, and Japan. Along with our partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb, we are looking forward to launching Eliquis in the US shortly and believe its strong clinical profile can establish this medication as an important new treatment option in the high-need area of stroke prevention for patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. Our Specialty Care business is in the initial phase of launching Xeljanz in the US, a first-in-class compound with a compelling clinical profile and oral dosing. We believe these factors will position it competitively within the moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis market. We are prepared to invest in both of these products at competitive levels to support their launches.

In addition to Xeljanz and Eliquis, during 2012, we received approval for three additional new medicines, Inlyta for advanced renal cell carcinoma in the US, the EU, and Japan; Bosulif for CML in the US; and Elelyso for Gaucher disease in the US. During the year, we also advanced our early and mid-stage pipeline, most notably in oncology and vaccine areas. We moved forward in Phase 3 studies with dacomotinib for non-small cell lung cancer and inotuzumab for aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We reported encouraging Phase 2 data for our CDK 4/6 inhibitor for advanced breast cancer. This asset, formerly known as PD-332991, is now called palbociclib. We commenced a Phase 3 study of inotuzumab for acute lymphoblastic leukemia and we began a Phase 3 study for inotuzumab for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and we began a Phase 3 study for meningitis B vaccines for individuals aged 11 to 25. I believe we are entering 2013 with one of the most robust pipelines in the Company's recent history.

The actions we've set in motion early in 2011 to improve R&D productivity are starting to bear results, and we look forward to additional progress during 2013. We have a pipeline that I believe includes high-value assets at all stages of the development continuum across our key therapeutic areas. As of late last year, our pipeline contained a total of 78 programs, including 59 new molecular entities. There were 17 programs in Phase 3 clinical testing and 8 in registration. Throughout 2012, we concentrated on advancing our pipeline, reducing our cost structure, and returning value to our shareholders. I believe that through the dedication and focus of Pfizer colleagues, we have delivered on each of these goals.

Turning to 2013, as I've discussed with you on previous calls, we have two distinct operating models within the developed markets. One model supports our innovative-driven business, Primary Care, Specialty Care, and Oncology. The second model supports our value-driven business that comprises the off-patent products within our Established Products unit. In terms of the emerging markets, our operational model has a geographic focus that supports both the innovative-driven and the value-driven business. This is working well in these high-growth geographies. That said, as these markets evolve, we will evaluate if our emerging markets operating model should more closely mirror the two distinct approaches we have for developed markets, and the Consumer Healthcare business continues to be important as we pursue Rx-to-OTC switch opportunities. We believe these are the right models for achieving the best performance for the Pfizer over the next several years. During this time, we will be able to focus on the market success of our new products, advance our early and mid-stage pipeline, drive continued growth in Emerging Markets in both our innovative and off-patent portfolio. Additionally, we'll have put behind us our most significant LOEs.

We will also continue to use business development opportunities to supplement both our research and internal product efforts. Our primary focus remains bolt-on acquisitions that are projected to meet or exceed the return on investment of share repurchases. More specifically in 2013, you will see us focused on -- continuing to maximize the value of our in-line portfolio, including key in-line assets such as Lyrica, Celebrex, Enbrel, Viagra, and Prevnar 13; maximizing the performance of the products approved in the last two years; continue to advance the mid- to late-stage pipeline in vaccines, oncology, cardiovascular inflammation; focusing on the high-growth, high-margin off-patent opportunities; focusing opportunities in key growth markets such as China, Brazil, Russia, India, Turkey, and Mexico; continuing to work on managing our expenses and driving ongoing efficiencies within our manufacturing network so we have a lower and flexible cost base that allows us to respond to pricing pressures in our upcoming LOEs; and continuing to return capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

In summary, our results in 2012 demonstrated that we are focused on the right areas and are making visible progress towards sustained value creation. In 2013, we must maintain our momentum by continuing to execute, by delivering on the potential within our pipeline, and by demonstrating fiscal responsibility in how we use our capital. We are committed to helping patients by delivering innovative medicines and creating value for our shareholders. Now I'll turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter and our 2013 financial guidance.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. I want to again remind you that the Nutrition business is presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented. As you know, discontinued operations are excluded from adjusted financial results. Consequently, throughout 2012 until its sale on November 30th, the results of the Nutrition business have been excluded from adjusted results. Now let's move on to the financials.

Fourth-quarter 2012 revenues of approximately $15.1 billion decreased 7% year-over-year, reflecting a 2% negative impact from foreign exchange, and an operational decline of approximately 5%, driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies, notably Lipitor, in all major markets. Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.47 decreased 4%, primarily due to the previously mentioned decrease in revenues, which was partially offset by an aggregate operational decrease of 9%, in adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses, primarily resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives and fewer weighted average shares outstanding due to our continued share repurchases. Reported diluted EPS was $0.85, compared with $0.19 in the year-ago quarter. In addition to the factors previously mentioned, reported diluted EPS was favorably impacted by the gain on the sale of the Nutrition business to Nestle and lower overall costs, which were partially offset by the negative impact due to the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies and higher restructuring charges.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth-quarter revenues by 2%, or $271 million, and unfavorably impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses by $161 million, or 1%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.05.

In the fourth quarter of 2012, Emerging Markets biopharmaceutical revenues were approximately $2.7 billion, which reflects operational growth of 20% and the negative impact of foreign exchange of 3%. The revenue growth in Emerging Markets this quarter was driven primarily by strong volume growth in China, overall emerging market growth, as well as the timing of government purchases of Enbrel in Brazil and Prevnar 13 in Turkey compared with the year-ago quarter. Volume growth of 22% in Emerging Markets was partially offset by price reductions of 2%, resulting in the 20% operational growth. Of the fourth-quarter Emerging Markets biopharmaceutical revenues, approximately 42% was generated by established products, 34% by specialty and oncology products, and 24% by primary care products.

Fourth-quarter biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets were approximately $1.2 billion, which reflects operational growth of 26% and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 4%. Of the fourth-quarter BRIC-MT biopharmaceutical revenues, approximately 46% was generated by Established Products, 29% by Specialty and Oncology products, and 25% by Primary Care products. During the fourth quarter, biopharmaceutical volume growth of 30% in the BRIC-MT markets was partially offset by price reductions of 4%, resulting in operational revenue growth of 26%. Full-year operational growth in the BRIC-MT markets was 16% versus the year-ago period, reflecting volume growth of 20%, partially offset by price reductions of 4%.

As you can see, in 2012 we met or exceeded most components of our financial guidance, including achieving the top end of our full-year 2012 revenue guidance and exceeding our adjusted diluted EPS guidance. Our 2012 adjusted R&D expenses of $7.3 billion reflect opportunities to accelerate investments in promising late-stage pipeline assets, including palbociclib in advanced breast cancer. However, I want to point out that we expect full-year 2013 adjusted R&D expenses to be in the range of $6.5 billion to $7 billion. And as I previously mentioned, reported diluted EPS was primarily favorably impacted by the gain on the sale of the Nutrition business.

Now moving on to our 2013 financial guidance, which incorporates the full-year contribution from Zoetis. I'd like to comment specifically on a few elements of the guidance. First, we expect reported revenues to be in the range of $56.2 billion to $58.2 billion. I want to point out that this range includes the absorption of an anticipated $4 billion negative impact due to the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies and to the near-term expiration of certain co-promotion agreements. In addition, it's important to note that approximately $200 million of 2012 revenues associated with products that Pfizer is contributing to the Pfizer Hisun joint venture in China announced in 2012 will not be recorded as Pfizer revenues in 2013. The results of the joint venture will be recorded in other income. We expect 2013 SI&A to be in the range of $15.6 billion to $16.6 billion, the midpoint of which is less than the 2012 actual spending level. This range includes spending in support of key product launch opportunities such as Eliquis, Xeljanz, and Prevnar 13 adult. These are significant product opportunities, and we intend to appropriately fund and support these launches to be competitive. In addition, we plan to essentially offset those incremental expenses through our cost-reduction initiatives.

We also expect our 2013 tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 28%, which, among other items, includes the federal R&D tax credit renewed by Congress under the American Taxpayer Relief Act for both 2012 and 2013. Finally, we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.30. This range includes a $0.02 unfavorable impact for certain ongoing costs associated with the potential separation of Zoetis, including the interest expense on Zoetis debt, certain duplicative costs for Corporate support and manufacturing functions, and other costs, as well as a $0.02 negative impact, reflecting the difference in actual foreign exchange rates in 2012 compared with the mid-January 2013 exchange rates. As always, we will continue to monitor foreign exchange fluctuations, and we'll update the potential impact, if any, on our 2013 expectations. I want to point out that with all other things being equal, the inclusion of the $0.02 of cost related to the separation in Zoetis and the $0.02 impact of recent foreign exchange movements has negatively impacted our 2013 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range by $0.04. Excluding these items, our adjusted diluted EPS guidance range would have been $2.24 to $2.34.

Now, moving on to key take-aways. We achieved the top end of our full-year 2012 revenue guidance and exceeded our adjusted diluted EPS guidance. Our initial 2013 financial guidance includes the full-year contribution from Zoetis. We recently completed a $3.65 billion offering of Zoetis senior unsecured notes, and we remain on track to complete a potential initial public offering of up to a 19.8% ownership stake in Zoetis in the near future. In November, we completed the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestle for $11.85 billion. During the fourth quarter, we received US regulatory approvals for Xeljanz and Eliquis. We continued to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation. In 2012, we repurchased $8.2 billion, or 349 million shares. As of December the 31, 2012, we had $11.8 billion of authorization remaining under our current repurchase programs. Overall, we returned almost $15 billion to our shareholders in 2012 through dividends and share repurchases. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2013 and beyond. With that, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Great. Thanks for the commentary, Frank. And operator, at this point, if we could please poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. On your tax rate guidance in 2013, can you say what it would be without the double-counting of the R&D tax credit? You had at one time -- actually, at the time of the Wyeth merger, suggested a long-term rate of 30%. Seeing what Bristol-Myers has done on lowering its tax rate remarkably, I'm wondering if you have any ability to restructure any of your legal entities as well? A second question, and it's obviously one that you get asked about a lot, but can you give us your latest thoughts on potentially carving up the drug side of the business into truly separate companies like you're doing with Zoetis? You've been alluding to this possibility for quite some time now, but I think investors don't really know what sort of odds to assign to it. Would you say it's higher probability? Is it fifty-fifty odds, or is it lower probability?

IAN READ: Thank you, Tim. I'll ask Frank to take care of the tax rate guidance and explain the 30% tax rate and any other comments you want to make on taxes.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. Tim, on the 28%, which is down from 29.3% in 2012, even if we didn't have, I'll call it the double benefit of the R&D tax credit in 2013, our tax rate would be closer to 28% than to 29%. That's the way to think about it. By the way, what will happen in 2013 is we'll record the 2012 benefit in Q1, and then 2013 benefit we'll record throughout the year, just in terms of the accounting mechanics of the R&D tax credit. In terms of legal entity restructuring, the way I think about that is our tax planning. We do tax planning all the time. If you look at our tax rate over the last couple years, it's gone from 30% to last year slightly higher than 29%, and now our guidance for this year is approximately 28%. We'll obviously continue to do tax planning, but the one thing I'll say is trying to project tax rates beyond 2013, given everything that's going on, and with the uncertainty with just corporate tax reform, I think is not a prudent thing to do. Our current guidance is approximately 28%, and obviously, we'll do everything we can to meet or exceed that guidance.

IAN READ: Tim, on your additional question on the business models, I think I've been talking for some time now when discussing this with investors that I see that we have two models -- or two businesses within Pfizer today -- major segments, one being the innovative core and one being what we call value, which is basically post-LOE products. And we have made their operational separation in the developed markets, in the US and in Europe and in Japan, in Australia, in Korea, and places like that. We haven't made that separation in the Emerging Markets where we run it from a geographic basis, although in the major markets, we are moving towards creating units within those geographies that specialize in Oncology or Primary Care or Established Products. I believe that at some point, the markets will separate globally, and there will be an innovative market distinct from an Established Market, and I think Pfizer will continue to evolve into being managed that way. So I hope that answers your question. Right now, as I think I had said in my opening comments, Emerging Markets is working well. Our structure in the developed markets is working well. We are focused on the new launches, the pipeline, our capital allocation, expense discipline, and we will continue to evolve our model as we see value opportunities.

CHUCK TRIANO: All right. Thank you, Ian. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Great. Thanks very much. Two questions here, maybe one following up on Tim's questions. I think you've talked about as the emerging markets evolve that we might see the business model evolve. Following up on that, does it make sense for Pfizer to keep both a value and innovative core under the same umbrella if we get to a point where the emerging markets that structure doesn't -- the current regional structure does not make sense? The second question is coming back to the bolt-on acquisitions. Can you remind us how large a bolt-on acquisition you would be considering at this point? What are the priorities for you? When the Company -- if a larger deal were to come along with the right fit, is that an opportunity for Pfizer, or is that really not in the cards as we consider capital deployment over the next couple years? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Chris. Going back to the possibilities of EM and why it would make sense for Pfizer to have those two businesses, I think there's not really a lot of point on speculating over this. Today, we have both businesses. You certainly in an innovative side need to be careful that you have -- it tends to be more volatile, and the established products allows you to take short-term movements in volatile -- in the business. But that being said, we will look at it. We will, I believe, move towards a separate management, and at that point, we'll be able to evaluate whether shareholders would prefer to have the option to invest in two distinct companies or not. I don't think that is a short-term priority right now for us. The priority is to evolve our internal model and measure how successful those businesses are and what management and leadership they require and are they distinct enough to go further.

On the bolt-on acquisitions, we've said that we are focused on generating shareholder return. I'm going to make a few comments and ask Frank to add to it if he wants to. So we use -- we look at bolt-on acquisitions as a way of adding high-value businesses or intellectual property to Pfizer that can generate positive returns to shareholders above what we see as the opportunity of share buy-back's. Bolt-on' s, I don't want to give you a precise number. We did King at $3.6 billion. So what's a bolt-on? Middle multiples of that number. You pick it. Where our market cap is $180 billion, what would you consider a bolt-on for that size of company? Now, as regards larger opportunities, we look at everything from the point of view of, does it add value to Pfizer shareholders. If it adds value, we never say never. We consider opportunities. But right now, we continue to be focused on running our internal business and looking for those bolt-on opportunities.

FRANK D'AMELIO: I'll add maybe three items to Ian's comments. I think first, the way we think about biz dev in general is it's not a strategy in and of itself. It's an enabler of our strategy. So that would be point number one. I think the second thing in terms of bolt-on' s -- I think Ian sized it perfectly. King was several billion dollars. We viewed that as a bolt-on, the way to think about that. In terms of the priorities, which is something you asked, no changes. I think our priorities remain our focused therapeutic and disease areas, including the emerging markets. That's clearly where we've been biasing, and I think that's where we'll continue to bias. In terms of the large deals, just to punctuate what Ian said, there's no new news here. We always say we never say never, but our focus has been and continues to be on bolt-on acquisitions.

IAN READ: It continues to be on bolt-on acquisitions and those acquisitions that add value to Pfizer shareholders. (multiple speakers)

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAY OLSON, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, this is Jay Olson on behalf of Jami Rubin. Couple questions. First off, with the focus on optimizing both your innovative- and your value-based businesses -- and we appreciate the significant progress being made in the innovative side with new product launches and pipeline progress -- we wonder if you could elaborate a little on some of initiatives you're taking to optimize the value-based business? Second of all, I understand your comments may be restricted but could you help us understand what might be a fair timeline for your potential decision to monetize the remaining 80% of Zoetis? Would a share exchange be something you would consider if Zoetis shares trade at a premium to Pfizer? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Jay. I'll ask Olivier, who runs the Established Product business and Emerging Markets, if he can comment on work we're doing to grow the -- what we call the value business. And then Frank will answer the question on Animal Health.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER, EMERGING MARKETS AND ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER INC: I thank you for your question. What we're trying to do in the Established business division is to maximize the performance of those products in the LOEs phase and supporting their life cycle, potentially with line extension and changing product formulations. We also have recently built on the opportunity to quickly provide very reliable source of product in a shortage situations, and we've been very active on the US market in that space. We may also move on sterile injectable. We think it's a high-value space for the post-LOE market. In the space of differentiated formulation, I don't know if you've seen recently, but we launched Quillivant XR in January, the first and only product which is in liquid formulation and extended release for kids between 6 and 12 years old with ADHD. We think we're going to be through that enhance and better formulation, very competitive in that marketplace. So just providing a few examples of what we're doing.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier. I'd probably add to that we also have an active program in biosimilars, which I would consider probably in the post-LOE space. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: On Zoetis, I want to reiterate what Chuck said at the beginning of the call, which is we're in a quiet period, so I'm very limited in what I can say. What I can say is we remain on track to complete a potential IPO for up to a 19.8% stake in Zoetis in the near future. The road show is taking place. Relative to beyond the IPO, assuming one is completed, we'll have a number of alternatives that are available to us for distributing the remaining shares. Obviously, we'll do what's best from an after-tax-return to our shareholders.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Maybe I can ask a couple pipeline and product-related questions. Number one, on PD-991 -- I think this is the first earnings call since the fantastic data a month or two ago. Just wondering if you could clarify your plans in terms of filing timeline's? Also, if you can help us understand the market opportunity for that, that would be great. Also, two major product launches this year at Pfizer, arguably the highest-profile launches in all of bio-pharma's, with Xeljanz and Eliquis. I'd love it if you could give the investment community any advice or wisdom when we think about those launches and maybe compare and contrast them? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you. On PD-991, palbociclib, I would ask Geno to comment on that and on that, as you say, outstanding data we got in the first of the Phase 2 trial. Then perhaps Geno would make some comments on how we see the evolving launch of Xeljanz. Then John Young could make some comments on the launch of Eliquis. Thank you.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER, SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC: Okay. For palbociclib, as you mentioned, we had some really terrific data that we were able to present in San Antonio last year. That trial is -- continues into this year. There are two patient cohorts. The first patient cohort has completed, and the second patient cohort will complete later this year. We're expecting to present full data by the end of the year. As the data emerges, we will continue to discuss the data with the agencies around the world and determine the best pathway to bring this product to patients. Our current focus is on the ER-positive, HER-2-negative advanced breast cancer patient population. We expect to initiate a Phase 3 trial in this population to confirm the results that we saw in Phase 2 in the very near term, and we're anxious to proceed with that program. We also have plans to initiate additional Phase 3 programs in other breast cancer patient populations and then to explore the utility of the drug in tumors outside of breast cancer as we go through the rest of this year.

With regard to Xeljanz, we're off to a very good start. We're very pleased with the execution of the launch plan so far. It is early days, but the response from physicians has been very favorable. They're particularly pleased with the second-line indication and the ability to use Xeljanz without the need for methotrexate. These are kind of recurring themes that we're hearing. We did expect that the majority of initial trial will be in the post-TNF patient population. We think that, that's reasonable going forward, although we are hearing of physicians trying the drug in both the post-methotrexate and the post-TNF patient population. Most physicians are putting a handful of patients on the drug and want to see the patients come back to evaluate them. We're pretty optimistic that when they see those patients return that they will be pleased with the results, given the outcome of our Phase 3 trials, and in particular, the feedback from patients on patient-reported outcomes, which were actually very favorable in our Phase 3 program. So we're on track. We feel good about Xeljanz and I guess with that, I'll turn it over to John Young. C

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER, PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC: Okay. Thanks, Geno, and thanks for your question, Mark. Obviously, we're very excited about the opportunity that we have with Eliquis, along with our partners BMS. I think clearly since the last call, in little more than six weeks, Eliquis received back-to-back approvals in the US, the 27 countries of the EU, Canada, Japan, South Korea, for reducing the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients who have nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. So we've already launched in the UK, Germany, Denmark, and the launches will progress in the EU over the coming months. In terms of the profile, which you know very well, clearly Eliquis is the only oral anticoagulant. It's demonstrated superior risk reduction versus Warfarin in the three critical outcomes of stroke prevention, major bleeding, and all cause-mortality in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. As a result, we certainly believe it offers a compelling profile for Cardiologist's and Primary care physicians, as reflected in our approved labels.

We expect Eliquis to be widely available in most US pharmacies by the end of January. Our US sales teams from Pfizer and BMS are at the internal launch meeting as we speak and will be on the road speaking to physicians on Monday next week. Overall, we really believe that Eliquis's differentiated profile, combined with the extensive experience that Pfizer and BMS bring to the cardiovascular commercial market, certainly positions us well to succeed. Given the strength of the Eliquis data, the superior risk reduction versus Warfarin in those three critical outcomes of stroke prevention, we believe that peers will certainly want to ensure that patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation have access to this clinically important medicine. We expect steady progress as we penetrate this market over the course of 2013 and beyond.

OPERATOR: Andrew Baum, Citi.

ANDREW BAUM, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Three questions. First, for Ian, do you see opportunities for the industry to remove excess capacity infrastructure from within its EM and Established Markets products through a reorganization, is there a consolidation of distribution channels? Second, for Mikael -- for Frank. I'm interested in how tax efficient you think your existing EM established products business is and how much would alternate business structures further enable you to optimize that? Finally for Geno, apologies. Could you talk to whether there's a pre-planned interim analyses for your recently initiated first-line PD-991 trial? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Andrew. Excess capacity in emerging markets. I think right now, probably if you go back to the US market in the '90s, most companies are focused on trying to get as large a share as they can in these vast -- in these quickly growing economies. I don't think people are focused right now on taking out infrastructure. However, I do agree with you that just like we saw in the US and Europe, there clearly will be at some point opportunities to rationalize infrastructure in those geographies. As the second question, I didn't really understand. EP and emerging, did you -- I didn't really understand, I'm afraid, Andrew. Perhaps you can come back and reposition it. Geno, could you comment on palbociclib?

GENO GERMANO: Yes, in the Phase 3 program, again, we're in ongoing discussion with the Agency, and our focus is really on finding the best way forward to reveal data that will enable the best decisions on making the drug available to patients. So we will discuss interim analyses as part of that assessment.

IAN READ: Perhaps I could just say on emerging markets and EP, we have a clear vision of both businesses. We're getting what we believe are strong results. In EP, you could see the successful switch to -- of Lipitor. You could see the Quillivant launch, focus on sterile injectables, focus on major markets. In emerging markets, we have strong, geographic-based organizations that are driving value in both our innovative and our post-LOE products. Olivier, do you want to add anything to that?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: I think there is a strong integration of EP products into EM, and as we said, very valuable. They represent basically about 45% of our revenue, growing very strongly this quarter as you've seen at 21%.Very often, that is the result of combining innovative and EP products into the same sales force. For instance, cardiovascular sales force have both Lipitor and Norvasc. In many geographies, Lipitor is still in the end is still protected, where Norvasc is not, but you do optimize the two brands that way. There are plenty of synergy's to build on.

ANDREW BAUM: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets Gregg Gilbert, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: It's Gregg Gilbert. Thanks. First question is on Emerging Markets growth in 4Q. I realize that could be a lumpy growth line, so perhaps you could set the bar at what a reasonable growth rate goal would be annually in '13 and possibly beyond? My second question, along the lines of maximizing value for the value business, the strategies so far for the developed markets portion seems to be focused on Pfizer brands that lose exclusivity, coupled with alliances with generic companies that do generic R&D. Going forward, could the strategy also include one, internal development of small molecule generic's, and/or two, outright acquisitions of companies in that space? Again, I'm thinking more about developed markets than the emerging piece. Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. Olivier, could you take the fourth quarter and also refocus the comments on the strategy in the developed markets with the EP?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Right. Thank you, Greg. You've seen we posted 20% operational growth, and that is a result -- actually a very good result -- across geographies. In BRICMT, we have actually posted 26% operational growth but 30% in volume and offset by pricing, but very strong across geographies and portfolio. Specialty is running at 45% of growth this quarter, and as I mentioned before, Emerging Markets at 20%. Now, having said that, you have a lot of one-time items this quarter, right, especially Enbrel in Brazil and Prevnar in Turkey and Mexico. If you exclude those one-time items, you get to 16% growth for the quarter. So there are still volatility quarter-to-quarter in Emerging Markets. We remain committed to grow our Emerging Markets division by high-single-digit growth in the coming years. So that's --

IAN READ: And then on the established products in the developed markets, what are the key strategies to grow the business, such as sterile injectables and launches of Quillivant, et cetera?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Right. We remain focused on established products, to your point. We are not focusing in generic and the generic portfolio outside the US, where we have a strong position, as you know, with Greenstone. Outside the US, it's mainly emerging product -- established products. We're looking to bring sterile injectable, and as I mentioned before, new and differentiated formulation of established product.

IAN READ: Yes, I suppose in the developed market, we would say that business is a combination of Greenstone, a quality supplier that closes market gaps, with quality product. We've done that also in the oncology space. We're bringing important and sterile injectable products. We're trying to launch innovative formulations, and as distinct from established products in the emerging markets, where it's still a primary care business. It's field forces, it's selling quality, and it's selling the brand name of the products in Pfizer.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO Capital Markets.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Okay. Question on Zoetis and its impact on Pfizer. We know from the information that's available that the Zoetis business is a lower-margin business. If you were to proceed with full separation, how should we think about the margin expansion for Pfizer. On the CAPiTA trial, we know it's expected this year. I'm just wondering if you have a narrower timeline for it and if you could provide us any insights as to how we could quantify the adult opportunity? Thank you.

IAN READ: Frank, if you could take the first part, and Geno, the second?

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the impact of Zoetis on our numbers -- and once again, I'm limited in what I can say. But the intent here is assuming we were to complete an IPO, we would issue -- we would revise our guidance in early April after Zoetis has filed its 10-K, which would be at the end of March. So at that time, we would revise our guidance by line item and then therefore, you could see the impact it would have on our numbers.

IAN READ: Geno.

GENO GERMANO: With regard to CAPiTA, the program -- the trial -- it continues to accumulate patients. As you know, it's an event-driven trial, so we really don't know what the date will be when the final event is -- has been identified. Once we have all the events accrue, we will complete the assessment, then -- do the analyses and report the data. We expect that to happen later this year. With regard to the magnitude of the opportunity, assuming positive results, we think that having a vaccine with demonstrated ability to prevent non-bacteremic pneumococcal pneumonia would be a valuable asset. There are over 300 million adults over 50 years of age in the developed markets, and I think the number expands to over 700 million in the global marketplace. So we think that the opportunity is substantial.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, good morning. Geno, maybe you can give us some color on some of the oncology launches, how they're going? Second of all, Olivier, I'm curious in the emerging markets, given all the cost-cutting going on in the overall Company, I was curious how much investment is occurring in the emerging markets? Where are we -- have we invested significantly more for 2013 versus 2012? Maybe we could get what the key Phase 2 readouts are for 2013 for data? Thanks.

IAN READ: All right. Geno, Oncology. Olivier, if you could make some comments on the question there, and Mikael, will you do the Phase 2?

GENO GERMANO: For Oncology, just a couple of comments about Xalkori. We've got a full year now in the US. Xalkori achieved $100 million in sales in 2012, primarily in the US. It's now approved and launched in the US, Europe, Japan, and several other smaller markets. Sales are continuing to grow as adoption of molecular testing continues to expand. We started out with about a 10% testing rate. Now the testing rate is over 60%. We think in the past year, we captured about a quarter of the potential patients in the US. We're also seeing an expansion in duration of treatment as we're identifying patients earlier in their disease. We're happy with the progress of Xalkori and looking forward to expansion in new markets around the world.

Inlyta has also gotten off to a very strong start in the US, where it's already established the leading share in second-line. In Japan, it's the second-most prescribed drug for metastatic renal cell carcinoma and with a 10% share and 40% in the second-line setting. In general, we're seeing good growth of Inlyta, continued progress with Xalkori, and now we're just getting started with Bosulif.

IAN READ: Thank you. Olivier.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Right. For emerging markets, definitely they represent an important growth opportunity. So we have been investing quite significantly in this market in recent years. We continue to invest to remain competitive. However, we are putting transformation programs to ensure that we are optimizing sales force and we have the best potential deployment, especially in support of the new products, which are going to be very important for emerging market, and the new launches, in addition to putting in place go-to-market models when it comes to brand marketing. So while we are investing, we are also beginning to get positive leverage from those investments.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC: We have a very exciting Phase 2 cohort, reading out more than 10 studies in the next 12 months. I'll share a couple with you. Immunology, we have our best-in-class IL-6 antibody with data coming in Lupus and also in Crohn's disease. We have a anti-mad cam antibody for Crohn's disease, a small-molecule P38 highly selective inhibitor for COPD. In diabetes, we have a pancreatic Glucokinase activator with a really unique profile reading out in diabetes and glucose control. We also have a novel PDE5 inhibitor for Diabetic Neuropathy. In vaccines, we're expecting data from staphylococcus aureus. Our F14 biosimilar are starting to move very nicely. We recently had positive data on Trastuzumab, which is exploring plans to go into Phase 3, while this year, we expect data from our second bio-similar, Rituximab, after completion of Phase 2. In some small areas, we're strengthening our portfolio in rare diseases and have a readout on our GMI-1070 in sickle cell crisis. Also, PCSK9 had a positive readout that we reported last year, and we have Phase 2b data coming, which underpins then our path forward to Phase 3.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. Sticking with the pipeline, Dr. Dolsten, if possible, will we actually get the readout of the Phase 3 study ARCHER with Dacomitinib this year? Second, I guess for Geno, going back to Xeljanz, some docs' feedback to us -- and again, it's limited -- has suggested that patients do not actually know about the drug. Is patient awareness important at this early in the launch and is a DTC campaign actually in the cards? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you. Mikael, are you going to talk to the pipeline?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: I can mention we are very excited about Dacomitinib. As you know, it's a pan-HER inhibitor, irreversible binding, and did very well in our Phase 2 data against tarceva. The ARCHER trial, if you referred to is event driven, we expect the data probably more during first half of 2014 to have accrued the number of events required to close the trial. In addition to that trial, where we go against tosivas within our Phase 2, we also have another partner trial against refractory non-small cell lung cancer. It's run by the National Cancer Institute of Canada. It's a nice study set behind Dacomitinib, and we look very much forward to see that data come for possibly a new generation of pan-HER inhibitors.

IAN READ: Thank you. Geno.

GENO GERMANO: With regard to awareness on Xeljanz, fortunately, within the first few weeks of launch, we have near 100% awareness among the prescribing community, which is terrific. And as I mentioned before, a lot of enthusiasm for the drug. Patient awareness is much lower, and we haven't done a lot of work with consumers, but we expect to roll out a consumer program around the middle of this year in keeping with the pharmaceutical guidelines to hold off on direct-to-consumer advertising for the first six months of launch. But we do think that consumer communication will be an important driver. We know that consumers are excited about idea of having an oral option and also excited about the potential to have an effective therapy without the need for methotrexate.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Thanks for the question. First for Ian, Ian, can you clarify your comments in terms of the separation of the management? Are you planning to actually tighten down the management from the multi-tiered organizations to now officially providing reporting at some point around the structure of the two businesses as you described them, the innovative core and the value business? Separately, Geno, can you help us understand, back when Prevnar 7 -- there was a decision at Wyeth way back when to not continue forward with Prevnar 7 in the adult setting, in large part because of herd immunity that is created by dosing infants. How do you see herd immunity influencing the adult indication for Prevnar 13? Is it just really more a timing-related issue as we think about herd immunity with Prevnar 13? Thanks a lot.

IAN READ: Thank you, Seamus. What you were really talking about was segment reporting. Right now, we have the management split and the responsibility split in the developed markets. We don't have that split in the emerging markets. So it's really, I think, premature at this stage to look at segment reporting, but we'll continue to review that so as to give shareholders the transparency they need. With that, --

GENO GERMANO: Seamus, regarding Prevnar, my recollection is that we chose not to go forward with the adult indication on 7 because we were so focused on advancing the -- and broadening the serotype coverage and getting to a 13 ahead of our competition. Once we achieved the formulation for 13, we were anxious to proceed to the adult vaccine. With regard to herd immunity, we know there is some herd immunity with the vaccination of children. There are a variety of epidemiologic studies that show different rates of herd effect. There are surveillance programs as well underway to identity the herd effect. What we see is that there a residual disease burden that we think that the adult vaccine will help prevent in the adult patient population, and the opportunity remains significant.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. I have some questions on Xeljanz and then on emerging markets, the future growth prospects. With respect to Xeljanz, we're going to try to benchmark the prescription trend ramp. I wanted to understand your sampling program, because on the one hand, I understand that you're giving 30-day samples, but on the other hand, for virtually all drug launches, drug companies give samples. I don't know if your sampling program is unusually strong relative to other product launches such that we should expect unusually low reported prescriptions? Then with respect to the once-daily Xeljanz, which is entering Phase 2 in 2013, could you help us understand whether Pfizer plans to run bridging studies to shorten the timeline to filing, and when do you plan to file that once-daily for approval?

Changing gears to Emerging Markets, the operating performance growth was 12% in 2012, including a huge fourth quarter, which seemed to be driven by some anomalies. I know that you're sticking to your high-single-digit growth target operationally for Emerging Markets, but is that too conservative? Because you reported 12% in 2012, and it looks like high-single-digits growth going forward would be below market growth. Or should we think about potential upside to that target for high-single-digit Emerging Market growth going forward? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you. Geno, could you answer the Xeljanz issues?

GENO GERMANO: With regard to the sampling program on Xeljanz, there's really two components. One is we have a patient-support program to help patients access reimbursement and to go through that process, which is very similar to any of the other drugs that they would be using in Rheumatology. There's a 14-day supply that we make available to patients to ensure that they can start therapy as soon as possible while they're going through that reimbursement process. In addition to that, we identified a group of rheumatologist's who we wanted to have access to drug right away so that they'd gain experience immediately. And we gave 30-day supply bottles to that identified population of rheumatologist's to use to again that early experience. Now, whether we'll continue that program into the future or not is unknown at this point, but the very initial impact of these two sampling programs will range from a fairly short period of time.

With regard to the once-a-day program, we're going to want to have the once-a-day have adequate labeling to enable use across all of the indications that we're pursuing. The program is a robust program, and we are still in discussion, actually, with the Agency on the exact protocol.

IAN READ: Thank you. David, on the Emerging Markets, I would agree with you that most multi-nationals are growing at slower than the overall market rate, as these markets are very local in their health care delivery, and there are strong local competitors who, given the lack of intellectual property in the last 25 years, have broad portfolios and add to those portfolios very fast. So I don't think it's reasonable to expect that multi-national will outgrow the marketplace. That being said, we have had accelerating growth. I was very pleased with the growth in the fourth quarter. However, I still believe that it's appropriate and aggressive to maintain a high-single-digit growth rate in Emerging Markets.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks very much. I wanted to ask you a few things. First of all, could you comment on your strategic interest on the eye business for the right price and also tell us when we're going to hear about your dry AMD program? And on the CDK I don't think we got to is if the Part 2 study comes out as positive or directionally the same as we've seen for Part 1 of your ER-negative -- ER-positive HER-negative study, would you presumably go to FDA for an accelerated approval path? Thanks.

IAN READ: Eye interest -- I don't believe that the eye is a stated strategic disease area for us, so that would probably answer that one. On the Macular Degeneration, could you comment on that?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: We have more opportunistic efforts in ophthalmology based on scientific spin-off opportunity. The particular program we have, RN6G, is an antibody against amyloidal that we made some findings seem to in the models play a role in dry MD. The study's up and running, but we'll not have any data coming this year.

IAN READ: On palbociclib, which is the CDK 4/6, look, I think Geno's comment on this, I'll just reinforce it. We have great data in the first trial. We have a second trial running, which is a different cohort of patients. We expect to be able to give you the results of that trial in the second half of this year. And as the data revolves, we will continue to work with the FDA and other agencies. We will clearly try and work with the regulators to bring this product to patients as fast as is appropriate given the data we have.

CHUCK TRIANO: All right. Thanks. Thanks for the context, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: A couple of follow-ups. First, has the strong flu season increased the event rate in CAPiTA, and has it changed the timing from the Q3 conclusion, which I think is what the Company had said previously? Secondly, has the decision by many payers to pay for Xeljanz post-TNF failures been mostly dictated by price, by lack of real-world experience, or by some other factor? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Steve. Geno.

GENO GERMANO: It has been a robust flu season this year, and generally, that is associated with a higher number of events. I can't confirm or deny whether or not there has been an acceleration of events in the trial. Clearly, the sooner the events accumulate to the target, the sooner we'll have results. So we'll let you know as soon as we know something there. With regard to reimbursement for Xeljanz, actually the reimbursement rates -- reimbursement coverage has been very favorable. Most of the plans are reimbursing out of the gate, and we'll conduct category reviews over time.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

OPERATOR: Michael Tong, Wells Fargo Securities.

MICHAEL TONG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Hi, just a quick question with regard to your biosimilar strategy. When do you expect your first biosimilar product to get onto market? Within 18 months of that, how many more would you think you would be able to get through?

IAN READ: Michael, we have a -- I think we're focusing on five molecules initially. We have two in active development and three that we're -- it's -- are further back. I really can't give you the -- we don't give timings, but the lead candidate biosimilar is in Phase -- Mikael, as you indicated, Phase -- (multiple speakers)

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: We just completed successfully with our first biosimilar. I briefly mentioned earlier Trastuzumab, which is the name for Herceptin, completed Phase 2 and are exploring plans for Phase 3 opportunity this year. The second that Ian alluded to, Rituximab, is going to complete in this year a Phase 2 study. You can see it's good momentum. We're using the deep skills seen in bio-pharmaceuticals and manufacturing to provide quality data.

IAN READ: So far, we're very encouraged by the Phase 2 data and our ability in this area.

OPERATOR: Kim Vukhac, CLSA.

KIM VUKHAC, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Thank you. Just a quick question. With regard to the guidance, can you talk about what your share repurchase assumptions are for the year? In addition, speak to the timing of the buy-backs, if it weighted more the first half versus second or more that we should assume evenly spread out throughout the year?

IAN READ: Thank you. I think Frank can give you the numbers on that.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Kim, the assumption is mid-teen billions relative to buy back's. In terms of the rhythm, I think the way to think about that is throughout the year. So no heavy waiting one area or another, just kind of throughout the year, and mid-teen billions.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. Thank you, everybody, for your attention this morning.

IAN READ: Thank you. Have a good day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the Pfizer's fourth-quarter earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130212e91t002pb
  


 HD
 Q3  2012  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,978 words
   PD
1 November 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP, IR, PFIZER INC: Thanks, Operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's third-quarter 2012 performance. Today, I'm joined by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development, who is joining us remotely due to the storm situation; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel, President and General Manager of Pfizer Nutrition and Consumer Healthcare; and John Young, President and General Manager of Primary Care. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed at Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance, third-quarter 2012, located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Discussion during this call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, November 1, 2012.

In addition, we will offer some brief comments regarding our preparation and target timeline for the potential IPO of a minority stake in our Animal Health business, Zoetis, and as I'm sure you will understand, we're not going to be able to respond to questions on that subject in light of the quiet period imposed by securities laws. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER INC: Thank you, Chuck. During my remarks this morning, I will briefly discuss the quarter and touch on some noteworthy events that happened in the weeks. Overall, our performance remains in line with our full-year guidance. As we have discussed over the course of this year, our financial performance in the near term will continue to be impacted by the losses of exclusivity, notably Lipitor, in all major developed countries. Year-to-date, we have absorbed approximately $5.5 billion in LOEs. I would note the most significant impact on revenues from LOEs will be in 2012, and this impact will decline significantly in subsequent years. To mitigate the impact to our earnings per share, we are producing growth from key in-lines, patented products, including Lyrica and Celebrex globally, and Viagra in the US.

We are seeing growth in emerging markets, most notably in China, Mexico, and Russia. On a year-to-date basis, our emerging market business has delivered solid performance with 10% growth on an operational basis. We have been effectively managing our cost structure and using the strength of our balance sheet. For example, while revenue for the quarter declined 12% on an operational basis, our adjusted cost of sales, SI&A expenses and R&D expenses, in total, decreased operationally by 8%. And if you exclude the $250 million payment to AstraZeneca for the exclusive worldwide rights to the over-the-counter Nexium, they would have declined 11% operationally, bringing costs down in line with the revenue decline we saw this quarter.

We continue to execute our share repurchase program. During the quarter, we repurchased $1.8 billion of common stock and our year-to-date repurchases are almost $6 billion. The Board has authorized an additional $10 billion in share repurchases, to be utilized over time upon completion of the sale of Nutrition to Nestle, which we now anticipate in the next few months. Our potential IPO for Animal Health remains on track, and depending on market conditions, we continue to expect the IPO to happen during the first half of 2013. As per our regular practice, I expect the Board to set the dividend rate for 2013 at its meeting in December.

Turning now to some recent noteworthy events. I remain confident in the quality of the assets and the progress I see in our pipeline. We have a robust set of potential high-value assets across our key therapeutic areas. They include some in early and mid-stages for diabetes, pain and cardiovascular diseases, vaccines for Mening B adolescents and staph aureus and late-stage oncology compounds and recent advances for key pipeline assets.

Concerning tofacitinib, we are looking forward to hearing from the FDA about our NDA on or before the upcoming PDUFA date this month. Tofa was discovered by Pfizer scientists in our labs in Groton, Connecticut. If approved, it will be the first new oral disease-modifying therapy for moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in more than 10 years. It has the potential to change the way health care providers treat RA. It would also be the first RA treatment in a new class of drugs known as Janus kinase, or JAK inhibitors. If approved, it will be a first-in-class product that we believe will offer a compelling clinical profile and effective new treatment option for patients. Regarding Eliquis, the FDA has resumed its review of the Eliquis NDA, and set a new action date of March 17, 2013. We and our alliance partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb, remain confident in the therapeutic profile of Eliquis, and that we can receive FDA approval by the new PDUFA date.

Turning to oncology, Xalkori just received conditional marketing authorization in the EU for previously treated ALK-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients. A conditional marketing authorization in the EU is similar to accelerated approvals in the United States. They are granted to medical products with a positive benefit-risk assessment that address unmet medical needs and whose availability would result in a significant public health benefit. Pfizer will submit data to the EMA from the recently completed study which met its primary end-point in previously treated ALK-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients. For a review of this data, the European Commission will consider converting the conditional marketing authorization to a full marketing authorization.

And coming in our consumer business, we are encouraged by positive news that multi-vitamins resulting from the Physicians Health Study Two, conducted by investigators at Brigham and Women's Hospital, a teaching hospital at Harvard University. We are pleased that the study investigators chose Centrum Silver based on its quality and consistency, among other factors, for the duration of the 11-year study that tested the role of multi-vitamins in relation to long-term benefits. I would note that Centrum is the sixth largest OTC brand in the world, and Centrum Silver is the world's number one selling multi-vitamin for adults 50 and over.

We have recently launched new products, Inlyta in Europe, Bosulif in the US, and we will soon launch Xalkori in Europe. I remain confident that we have a strong pipeline focused in the therapeutic areas where we have strengths, and which can deliver our next wave of innovative products. I am pleased with how we are executing our decisions we have made to create meaningful incremental shareholder value through the potential Animal Health IPO and Nutrition sale. We are seeing good results from the actions we are taking to manage costs across the business. We continue to make shareholder-friendly capital allocation decisions, and finally we are making decisions that we believe have the potential to drive future earnings-per-share growth. Now, I'll turn it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC: Thanks again. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. I want to, again, remind you that the Nutrition business is presented as a discontinued operation in consolidated statements of income for all periods presented. As you know, discontinued operations are excluded from Adjusted financial results. Consequently, throughout 2012, the results of the Nutrition business have been excluded from Adjusted results.

Now, let's move on to the financials. Third-quarter 2012 revenues were approximately $14 billion, decreased 16% year-over-year, reflecting a 4% negative impact from foreign exchange and an operational decline of approximately 12%, driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies, notably Lipitor, in all major markets. Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.53 decreased 12%, primarily due to the previously mentioned decrease in revenues, which was partially offset by an aggregate operational decrease of 8% in adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted R&D expenses, primarily resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives, a lower adjusted tax rate of 28.3% and fewer weighted average shares outstanding due to our continued share repurchases. Reported diluted EPS of $0.43 decreased 10%. In addition to the factors previously mentioned, reported diluted EPS was favorably impacted primarily by a US tax settlement, and negatively impacted primarily from the non-recurrence of the gain on the sale of Capsugel in the year-ago quarter.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted third-quarter revenues by 4%, or $699 million, and favorably impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses by $440 million, or 5%. This negative impact was primarily driven by the euro and to a lesser extent, the Brazilian real versus the US dollar. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted third-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.02. In the third quarter of 2012, emerging markets biopharmaceutical revenues were approximately $2.4 billion, which reflects operational growth of 6%, and the negative impact of foreign exchange of 8%. I want to point out that the volatility in our emerging markets quarterly revenues was driven primarily by Prevenar purchasing patterns, specifically the timing of government purchases of Prevenar 13 in Turkey compared to the year-ago quarter.

Volume growth of 8% in emerging markets was partially offset by price reductions of 2%, resulting in the 6% operational growth. Of the third-quarter emerging markets biopharmaceutical revenues, approximately 41% was generated by established products, 33% by specialty and oncology products, and 26% by primary care products. Third-quarter biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets were approximately $1.1 billion, which reflects operational growth of 9% and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 10%. Of the third quarter BRIC-MT biopharmaceutical revenues, approximately 42% was generated by established products, 30% by specialty and oncology products, and 28% by primary care products.

During the third quarter, biopharmaceutical volume growth of 10% in the BRIC-MT markets, most notably in China, Mexico, and Russia, was partially offset by price reductions of 1%, resulting in operational growth of 9%. Year-to-date operational growth in the BRIC-MT markets was 13%, versus the year-ago quarter reflecting volume growth of 16%, partially offset by price reductions of 3%.

Based on our year-to-date performance and outlook on the remainder of the year, we are narrowing the ranges for our full-year financial guidance components. We are narrowing the reported revenue range to $58 billion to $59 billion, from $58 million to $60 billion. We are decreasing and narrowing the range of adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues to 18.7% to 19.2%. We are narrowing our adjusted SI&A expense range to $16.3 billion to $16.8 billion. We are narrowing our R&D guidance range to $7 billion to $7.25 billion. I want to point out that our R&D guidance includes the $250 million payment to AstraZeneca for the exclusive, global over-the-counter rights to Nexium, which we recorded in the third quarter.

We now expect other deductions to be approximately $900 million, and continue to expect the effective tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 29%. We are increasing and narrowing the range of our reported diluted EPS to $1.30 to $1.38, and we are narrowing our adjusted diluted EPS range to $2.14 to $2.17. Finally, we now expect operating cash flow to be approximately $18.5 billion, which reflects the charge related to the Rapamune settlement recorded in the third quarter.

Our third-quarter results continue to reflect the loss of exclusivity of certain products, mainly Lipitor, in all major markets. That said, we are continuing to mitigate the impact of Lipitor -- of the Lipitor LOE, with expense discipline and share repurchases. We received US regulatory approval for Bosulif, and in the European Union, we received approval for Inlyta and conditional marketing authorization for Xalkori. We filed a registration statement in mid-August for a potential initial public offering of up to a 20% ownership stake in the Animal Health business to be named the Zoetis. And addition, we filed an amendment to the S-1 on October 10, which included updated financial statements through the second quarter 2012. We remain on track to complete a potential IPO in the first half of 2013, and as we continue to work toward a separation of the business, we remain open to all alternatives to maximize the after-tax return for our shareholders. We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation, with approximately $5.9 billion, or 255 million shares, repurchased through October 31, approximately $4.1 billion of authorization remains under the current repurchase program.

The Board of Directors also just recently authorized a new program upon the sale of the Nutrition business to repurchase up to 10 billion of our shares over time. We now expect to complete the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestle in the next few months. Finally, we expect return more than $12 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases during 2012. Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks for the review, Frank. At this point, Operator, if we could please poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Ian and Frank, questions for you both. If you could give us some sort of granularity and color on what the revenue outlook for this company might look like in 2013 and beyond. Obviously, in 2012 we were in the teeth of patent expirations with the Lipitor LOE. But how should we think about, directionally, revenue outlook going forward? Also, to follow-up on tofa. Ian, you said you expected the FDA to act on or before the PDUFA date. Can you share with us your expectations for what kind of label you might receive? Thank you.

IAN READ: With revenue outlook, I'll make a few comments and let Frank add anything he wants to and I'll ask Geno to answer on the tofa question. The peak year of patent expiration for us as far as we can see is 2012, with approximately $8 billion. Subsequent to that, '13, '14, and '15, we'll continue to be faced with LOEs and alliance revenue losses that will be substantially lower than that. Probably a peak of $4 billion in one of the years, but between $3.5 billion and $4 billion in the subsequent three years. Still subject to alterations and fluctuations as patents expire.

So countering that, of course, we will have in-line growth from our patented products and emerging market growth. We'll have the launch, we expect, of tofacitinib and Eliquis, and we expect also to have the launch of the Prevnar 13 adult vaccine. Those are the two currents, I would say, that would be affecting our revenue over those years. Frank, do you want to add anything to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: I would simply add that in addition to everything Ian said, we will also continue to manage our cost structure, and we will continue to do share repurchases. All those things will lead to steady, consistent earnings growth over time.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT & GM, SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC: Yes, just a couple comments, Jami, on tofa. We are nearing, I think, the end of the review process. We do expect that we'll have an action by the PDUFA date this month. With regard to our expectations, I think you know that we have a very robust data set behind tofa with five large, pivotal trials, showing good efficacy and safety in both the pre-TNF and post-TNF setting. We think that the results that we've seen across this broad range of trials and broad range of patient types showed very consistent response, and we're expecting to have a very competitive label.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Ian, you had mentioned this earlier, about all strategic options being on the table for Pfizer. So last year, in July of 2011, you disavowed splitting up the drug side of the business when you gave your strategic update. That language, in 2012, has changed subtly.

I am just wondering if you can provide any more specifics on potentially splitting up the drug side? So what could it look like? What could the structure be? And, more importantly, when would we hear more? And then on tofacitinib, if I can just ask one question, do you expect that you will get both the 5- and the 10-milligram doses approved on the first go around?

IAN READ: Okay, well I'll take the overall question and then I'll ask Geno to reply on tofa. I think I've tried to be clear on this, that I see, putting Consumer to one side, which fits with either of the other two remaining businesses, I see us having two businesses going forward, once we finish the -- if we do complete the separation of Nutritional and Animal Health, I see us having a growth business, or an innovative business, which is fueled by the pipeline that I discussed earlier in my comments today.

And then I see a value business, which is depending on post-LOE or peri-LOE products, very broad geographic capabilities, large capabilities in reimbursement and managing a global business. Those two businesses are core businesses for us. We already have, in the developed market, separated those businesses out, so we do have an innovative business and an established products business, which equates roughly to those two segments.

And in the emerging markets, we continue to manage them as country organizations. Now, once we get through the changes of Animal Health and Nutrition, we will continue to look at how to best structure those two businesses so they can maximize the value to Pfizer.

GENO GERMANO: Regarding the 5- and 10-, as you know, in all five of the pivotal trials that we conducted, we tested both the 5-milligram and the 10-milligram doses. Again, the results were very consistent across the board, across the patient types in the trials that were done. We believe that the benefit/risk is favorable for both the 5- and the 10-milligram, and at this point in our discussions with FDA, we're not going to comment any further on what we expect the final outcome to be.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenbaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Maybe if I could first just build on Tim's question. Will you report out separately, at any point in the next year or so, the established products P&L versus the branded products P&L? Not breaking the company up, but just giving us more disclosure in the Ks and the Qs around those business operations?

And I had a question for Mikael Dolsten. I was wondering if he could update us on timelines, make sure everything is on track for the Prevnar CAPiTA trial and also bring us up to speed on the Mening B and staph vaccine programs? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay, I'm going to ask Frank to answer the question on the reporting structure, and then Mikael, if you could take those -- the questions on the CAPiTA trial.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On reporting, we provide revenue detail today by individual business unit. In the charts that I walk through, there's clearly revenue detail by business unit. In terms of beyond revenue detail, I think the way to think about this is the established products business has lower gross margins than the traditional pharmaceutical businesses, but has comparable operating margins because it requires less expense, which is something that we've talked about previously.

Going forward, we'll do what we always do, which is see where are there opportunities to improve the transparency of the company. To the extent that we see those opportunities to be more transparent, we'll incorporate those into our external reporting.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. Mikael, if you're --

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC: Yes. Thank you for your interest in our vaccine pipeline. The Prevnar CAPiTA trial is event driven, and pending the seasonality and severity of pneumonias, it's often triggered by colds and flu seasons. We have in our projections that CAPiTA may have sufficient events during 2013 to allow us to aggregate data during the latter part of that year.

Menging B has gone very through productive dialogues with regulatory agencies in US and Europe, and we anticipate starting, and plan to start, before the end of this year. Staph aureus contains two studies that are in Phase 2, with a read-out during next year.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two housekeeping questions and one R&D question, please. What were the sales of Xalkori and Inlyta? Second, if you look at Sutent, is it -- could we argue that it might be slowing if you simply look at it sequentially? Has it totally maxed its potential? And then, for Doctor Dolsten, an earlier-staged product, PCSK9, Pfizer seems to be a little bit behind at least two competitors. Given the Phase 2B just started from a dosing perspective and will not complete until next year, suggesting the Phase 3 trial would not necessarily start up until sometime later next year, or even later than that. And the question really is, how would you envision this emerging -- is a year behind not that big a deal? And more importantly, do you think there is a unique characteristic for your molecule that may be different from others?

IAN READ: Frank, could you address the sales of Xalkori and Inlyta, as Geno wants to comment on Sutent, and then I'll make a couple of comments on PCSK9 and I'll ask Mikael to comment further.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. On Xalkori, revenues for the third quarter were almost $40 million for Inlyta, revenues for the third quarter were almost $30 million. So approximately $40 million, approximately $30 million for those two drugs respectively.

GENO GERMANO: Sutent is doing very well. It remains the number one choice in first-line metastatic RCC, and frankly, it's showing a lot of durability. We're looking forward to continuing our leadership position in RCC now with Sutent, Inlyta, and Torisel. It's a real strong franchise for us.

IAN READ: On Xalkori, the testing has gone up from 11%, I think, at the beginning of the year now, to 55%, which is very encouraging because that required a change in physician practice. And if that occurs, it makes us more optimistic about the potential for Xalkori going forward. And of course we now have the launch coming in Europe.

On PCSK9, I believe that we may be potentially a little bit behind some of our competitors. It really is an issue of, as you say, is a differentiation, and if we don't have a first in class, do we believe we potentially have a best in class asset. And clearly, the development of this asset has several strategic options. Mikael, do you want to add anything on the science of that?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Let me add a few words. We are very excited about this drug class. We think there may be differences between antibodies in the performance during unionicity and in the dosing regimen. It's important to have the optimal dose regimen to allow sustained relevant cholesterol levels in a convenient manner to be accomplished.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Two pipeline questions. I'm hoping to better understand the meningococcal B development program. As I see it on clinicaltrials.gov, you're running a phase 3 safety study involving 7,500 patients, and since it has the word safety in the title, I'm assuming that the drug -- the vaccine cannot be filed after that trial, that there will need to be additional phase 3 trial work. But I may be wrong, so just wondering if that trial successfully concludes, can you file or do you need to do additional phase 3 work?

Then the second question is for Mikael Dolsten. Mikael, can you just highlight the key phase 2 product readouts that we should be watching in the next 12 to 18 months? Besides the PCSK9, which you've already discussed. Thank you.

IAN READ: Mikael, could you handle the mening B question, and then also address the pipeline?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: In the mening B program, it is correct, we have a safety study ongoing, but we're planning this year to start -- and also early next year -- several other studies that include large efficiency studies, and different batch lot consistency studies, and potentially concomitant vaccine studies. It will be a broad program that will be aimed to show effectiveness to raise relative immune responses and applicability for young and adolescent patients to use the vaccine.

When it comes to the pipeline, what should be the next wave to watch? Let me briefly mention some 10 key opportunities in 4 therapeutic areas. In oncology, I would mention dacomitinib for non-small cell lung cancer, inotuzumab for B cell malignancies, and PD 991, our exciting CDK inhibitor for advanced breast cancer. We are planning to present phase 2 data at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium in December. In vaccines, we already spoke about the mening B vaccine and the staph aureus vaccine, which will have a few read-outs next year.

Tofacitinib, is, of course, the flagship in our immunology therapeutic area, with a portfolio of opportunities beyond RA. We are in phase 3 for psoriasis and ulcerative colitis. We are studying additional indication in phase 2, including Crohn's, and we're supplementing our inflammatory bowel disease activity with POC studies for madcam and IL-6 antibodies, which would have read-outs in the next 12 to 18 months. The IL-6 antibody would also have utility and there is a POC study ongoing in lupus.

Finally, in the cardiovascular metabolic area in addition to PCSK9, we also have an exciting pancreatic-acting glucokinase drug. As you can see, I selected some key --10 key opportunities of a very rich and diverse pipeline of some projects. Thank you.

IAN READ: I would just add to that, that clearly we started the safety program in mening B because those trials take longer than the efficacy programs, and clearly as we started our phase 3 trials, we now have an agreed upon development program at the FDA that we believe will lead to approval.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Just a couple here. First, emerging market growth. It looks like it's about 10% year-to-date, year-over-year growth. Obviously a nice step up over the 2011 results, but just interested in your thoughts on the longer-term growth opportunity in these markets. Do you think you can sustain low double-digit growth in the emerging markets over time or has enough changed in the macroenvironment were that's no longer a reasonable target?

Second question was on the commercial opportunity for Eliquis. Any thoughts on your expectations for the label you might receive there? How you're thinking about that market and how it has evolved so far with your competitors? And finally, can you give us an update on the status of Remoxy and Embeda? Just how we should be thinking about those?

IAN READ: Thank you. I'm going to ask Olivier to comment on emerging market growth potential, and then John Young will do Eliquis and Remoxy.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER OF EMERGING MARKETS AND ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER INC: We think we can continue to perform in line with our goal, so high single-digit growth over the period. The microtrends continue to be favorable with increased amount of spending on healthcare and the pharmaceutical market, which is growing at 12% to 15% in the next few years. So again, we think we can maintain the high single-digit.

If you look at the 6% we achieved during the quarter, it's very much influenced by the Prevenar and Enbrel institutional sales to government. If you take it out, that cadence, you look at the base business, during Q1 2012, we grew by 9%, the second quarter, 12%, and this quarter is still 11%. So all of that indicates that we have a pretty strong foundation and we think we can continue to build on it.

IAN READ: I would add also that were very pleased with our presence in the BRIC-MT markets with the accelerating growth there and the strength of our organizations. We're the number one multinational in China and we have impressive positions in the other BRIC-MT markets. So with that, John, would you like to take the other questions?

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT & GM - PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC: Obviously, as you're aware, and as we announced previously on September 26, the FDA acknowledged their receipt of the Eliquis NDA resubmission for our nonvalvular atrial fibrillation indication. That -- those discussions between Pfizer and BMS and the FDA are ongoing.

We continue to work very closely with them, and as you know, the target date for the FDA to complete their review is March 17, 2013, which is when the PDUFA date occurs. In terms of your question about how we see the potential, clearly we believe that Eliquis is differentiated from warfarin because it's demonstrated superior efficacy, bleeding, and all-cause mortality compared to warfarin in a single dose.

We believe that we should have a compelling profile for both cardiologists as well as primary care physicians, and we're obviously working very closely with our partner, BMS, to finalize the strategy and plans to make sure that we are very well prepared for launch.

So if I turn now to Remoxy and Embeda, if I take Embeda first of all. We met with the FDA in May of this year to discuss our proposal for reintroduction of Embeda to the market. The required stability programs are underway. And we anticipate a submission of a prior approval supplement in the first half of 2013.

If I turn to Remoxy, as you probably know from previous calls, Remoxy has been a challenging asset that our teams have been working on very diligently since the acquisition of King. As a result of that work and the extensive insights that we have gained around the formulation, we have initiated confirmatory bioavailability studies to assess the pharmacokinetic, or PK profile, of modified Remoxy formulation compositions. We expect those studies to read out in early in 2013.

We think that the results of those studies will provide us with much greater clarity on whether or not we will be able to adequately address the questions raised and the complete response letter that we received from the FDA. So we are targeting a late-March meeting with the FDA to discuss to those outputs and agree on a go, or no-go, decision.

One last comment just to make is that I think it's important to remember that our commitment to this area is very strong, and as such, we continue to invest in our compound AL-02, which is an extended-release oxycodone, which uses a naltrexone platform technology and it is currently in phase 3.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Frank, would you dissect the strength in gross profit margin? How much was currency, how much were efficiencies and how much was mix? Also, how much of the narrowing of the range in sales and EPS guidance for the year is due to adverse currency fluctuations? And then one for Dr. Dolsten. What is your post-mortem on bapineuzumab? Was it a flawed molecule? Did you study the wrong patients, or is the mechanism, in your view, unlikely to be effective? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: First on efficiency is foreign exchange relative to the quarter, let me run the numbers. Which is, if you look at our total adjusted costs for the quarter, they were down, and this includes cost of goods sold, SI&A, and R&D, they were down $1.3 billion. So from $9.5 billion last year to $8.2 billion this year. Foreign exchange helped that by $440 million.

So if you take the $1.3 billion, subtract $440 million, you get roughly $850 million. That was down 8% operationally. If you also add back where, just for the Nexium payment that we made, that 8% becomes 11%, which is what Ian mentioned in his opening remarks. So in terms of foreign exchange to the bottom line, foreign exchange hurt the quarter by $0.02. And by the way, just in terms of rhythm of the numbers, if you look last year in Q3, it actually helped Q3 by 4% -- $0.04. So it was a $0.04 good guy last quarter, $0.02 bad guy this quarter.

In terms of the revenue guidance, the updated guidance is within the guidance that we provided for the year. We had said $58 billion to $60 billion. We tightened it this quarter, left the lower end of the range and lowered the top end of the range from $58 billion to $59 billion. That decrease, if you look from midpoint to midpoint, is primarily driven by foreign exchange. You can't just look at the euro, which is typically what we do, and that's a big piece of our revenues. About 18% of our earnings are euro-denominated. But the yen and the Brazilian real have really been moving against us, quite frankly since the beginning of the year, the real more recently.

When we tighten the ranges, it has a more pronounced effect, which is why we lowered the range from $58 billion to $60 billion, to $58 billion to $59 billion. So the short answer is foreign exchange is the driver relative to our revenue guidance.

IAN READ: With the euro being roughly 18% of our sales, the yen represents 10%, and the real represents 4%. So basically, while traditionally, people just look at the euro, you have got to look at that mix to model the impact to exchange on Pfizer. I'm going to ask Olivier to answer the question on Bapi, and then I'll ask Mikael Dolsten to add anything if he thinks that he wants to do that after Olivier's comments.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: We are currently closing up the Bapi program, as you know. We have not seen any evidence of clinical activity in any of the relevant sub-population we study. We reported the results earlier in October, and as we speak at the clinical trial AD meeting this weekend in Monte Carlo. And the only study which is remaining with Bapi is a sub-Q formulation study, which is called the SUMMIT AD.

It's actually fully enrolled at this point and we are expecting to see the results during the first quarter '13. I'd like to mention that it's only a biomarker study. It's not an efficacy or safety study at this point. The alliance is going to look up all the biomarker analysis we have, not only coming from what we have already, but an additional two products, ACC-001 and AAB-003.

That information will actually inform our future work regarding potential program will prodromal AD. With any of those candidates which we have in our pipeline. So we continue to believe in the beta-amyloid pathway and we are committed to research in AD and to that point I'd like to ask Mike to eventually -- to mention --

IAN READ: Mikael, I would assume that anything you would say would be speculation, but go ahead.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. I think Olivier summarized it in an excellent manner. We do continue, as many in the field, to believe that effective intervention with amyloid formation at an early stage of the disease is a valid way forward to explore. We have a broad AD pipeline with both disease-modifying and symptomatic approaches.

Let me mention our Sam-760, a 5-HT6 antagonist that has completed phase 1 and is considered for further studies. We have other ways to interfere with amyloid formation, such as BACE and Gamma secretase inhibitors in late pre-clinical, and as Olivier mentioned, we are assessing different antibody approaches to modulating beta-amyloid. And this reflects our continued interest to research in Alzheimer's disease.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Can we get a little bit more color on how we should be thinking about the growth drivers of Prevnar 13, particularly in the pediatric indications going forward? What percentage of NIPs are now filled, given the fact that we are seeing this slowdown in the US?

As we think about some of the 2013 phase 3 catalysts, Mikael, maybe you could give us a little bit of your thoughts on the catalysts that you're most focused on? I think historically, there's been talk about, I guess the Inotuzumab products and for the antibody drug conjugate as well as dacomitinib on the Oncology side. Those are two that jump out at me.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Okay, Geno, would you like to comment on the interplay between pediatric and adults, and then Mikael comment on the '13.

GENO GERMANO: I think with Prevnar pediatric, what were seeing now is primarily the effect of the success that we had with the catch-up opportunity where we added over $1 billion in value to the Company by taking full advantage of the catch-up opportunity when we introduced the 13 valant. Now, we are reaching a point where it is the base birth cohort that is driving the pediatric business.

We have very strong NIP performance across most of the developed world. We are still growing in Japan, and I think future growth for the pediatric business will come from growth in emerging markets, and in the markets where we haven't introduce the 13 valant yet, which would include Japan and China. And in the US, you get a little bit from price each year, but it is, fundamentally, a strong base of business that think we can grow to some extent, but that -- probably not dramatically in the developed markets.

The growth opportunity truly comes from the adult business. As you know, without the formal recommendations in place yet, the adult business is slow to develop. In the US, we have recently gotten an ACIP recommendation for immunocompromised patients, and CDC has indicated they will make Prevnar a recommended vaccine as part of the hospital quality measures.

These are things that will help bring attention to the use of the conjugate vaccine in the adult population. But we think the real lift, and the real big opportunity, for growth in the franchise comes when we have a broader set of recommendations from the major recommending bodies around the world, which will occur post-CAPITA.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Later on the line there are a couple of interesting conferences end of this year already starting with the ACR rheumatology conference, where we will have several abstracts on tofacitinib, including the ORAL START study on structure end-point in pre-methotrexate-treated patients. American Heart Association, we will have a P69 and also sub analysis from Eliquis studies.

I briefly mentioned San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium in December. We would report the phase 2 data from CDK in advanced breast cancer. As you mentioned, dacomitinib, we will have two phase 3 studies that are expected to be presented at the conference in 2013. We will also show final analysis at the relevant medical conference in '13 on Inlyta, and we will continue to generate important data on tofacitinib in psoriasis and, as John Young mentioned, AL-O2, our oxycodone abuse-deterrent compound.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Firstly, can you just comment on your review regarding M&A opportunities out there? Does this authorization of new share repurchase program imply any view from you -- any change in view on the attractiveness of bolt-on opportunities in acquisitions that may or may not be out there? Secondly, the cost saving does appear to be running somewhat ahead of at least our expectations. I'm wondering if this is, from your point of view, just faster delivery than you may have originally anticipated? Or do you think you can go beyond what you have previously guided in terms of cost saving and efficiencies in the business? And just lastly, wonder if you can make some sort of comment about the tax rate beyond this year? It appears you may be seeing some structural mix changes in your tax rate. Can you talk a little bit about that in terms of the Q3 tax rate?

IAN READ: On the bolt-on opportunities, we don't see that the increased authorization for buybacks in any way diminishes our ability of M&A transactions if we find cases that can beat share back. Share buyback. And I'll ask Frank to talk about the cost savings and the tax rate.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the tax rate, we reiterated our guidance for the year, approximately 29%. Going forward, with all the uncertainty around tax reform, we should assume 29%. And the one thing I'll say is relative to tax reform, we support any tax reform that will enhance the global competitive of US companies that are operating internationally. But I think going forward, given the uncertainty around this, we'll continue to assume approximately 29%.

In terms of the cost savings, I think the way I'll answer this is almost in terms of what inning we're in relative to a baseball game. If you think about a nine-inning game, we are clearly not in the early innings. I don't think we're in the late innings. I think we are towards the end of the middle innings. So there's still opportunity. But clearly, the absolute size of the opportunity is the size of efforts isn't the size of what the opportunity was a few years ago given the billions of dollars we've already taken out of our cost structure.

IAN READ: I would say the changes going forward, the easy -- if it ever was easy, some of the targets -- some of the more obvious targets -- have already been taken care of. Now it's going to be cost reductions or increased efficiencies are going to be coming from exactly that, looking at business models and structure, and as Frank said, the targets that are available have been hit and taken care of. So with that, I think we'll move on.

OPERATOR: Alex Arfaei, BMO.

ALEX ARFAEI, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: First, Enbrel and other TNF seem to be a little weaker in Europe this quarter. We have heard about some cost-containment measures focused on TNF. To what extent do you see this as an opportunity for tofa as a potentially cheaper option and a similar efficacy? The follow up -- the Animal Health business was a little bit lighter operationally compared to what we have seen with some of your peers. Is there anything that was unique to this quarter that we should be aware of?

CHUCK TRIANO: Geno, if you could do Enbrel, and Frank can - do Animal Health.

GENO GERMANO: Sure. I think that the TNF inhibitors, and, frankly, the whole pharmaceutical portfolio, has experienced some challenge with cost-containment measures in Europe. Our TNF business has been impacted more in the southern European countries than in the north. But there is some effect there. The volume growth remains fairly strong, so I think a place for TNF inhibitors is relatively secure. I think in terms of tofa, we will announce our pricing strategy once we have approval and we're ready to introduce the product.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On Animal Health, let me run the numbers and I'll give a color commentary. So to your point, Alex, the quarter, year-to-date growth was 4%. But if you look on it on a year-to-date basis, the operating growth was 6%. So we'll get some volatility quarter-to-quarter, but on a nine-month year-to-date basis, 6%. If you drill down a little bit, we see increased demand across the global livestock portfolio, increased demand across the companion animal portfolio, and increased demand at certain key geographies.

I think the watch items are clearly the drought in the US Midwest and Southwest, and just what's going on in Europe, in particular, southern Europe relative to the economy. But net year-to-date basis, 6% operating growth, which we view as nice for that business.

OPERATOR: Damien Conover, Morningstar.

DAMIEN CONOVER, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Most of my questions have been asked, but just wanted to follow-up on the management of the cost structure. And continuing the baseball analogy, it depends when you start the analogy, but you look at towards the end of the middle innings, might suggest anywhere in the neighborhood of about $1 billion to $2 billion in annual cost savings still to be pulled out from Pfizer. Just wondering if you could characterize where that number fits in the scheme?

Also, when you look at managing the cost structure, are you largely balancing costs that could be saved from product losing exclusivity versus costs that will be needed to launch new products? Lastly, I was wondering if you could comment on the variable cost supporting Celebrex?

IAN READ: When we look at the -- at our costs, you obviously look at a company that has grown by acquisitions, which has allowed us to take out costs as we do the acquisitions. You look at our global position, and we carefully analyze what is our share of voice, what is our share of mind against our competitors. And we analyze that in the context of an industry that is in itself restructuring and faced with headwinds on pricing and access.

So that the spend you need to put in the marketplace depends to a large extent on the competitive set you're against. We tend to look at the spending of our competitors and what we need to do to remain competitive as a benchmark. I want to be clear here that we are looking at our costs always with a view to remaining competitive in the marketplace. Frank, do you want to add anything to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Maybe I'll give a little sub-ledger detail relative to what I said relative to where we are and then some of the opportunities going forward. First, if you think about manufacturing, we've said -- I've said previously, we still have to give or take about 10 manufacturing facilities that we plan to exit over the next several years in the US, Puerto Rico, and Ireland. 10 manufacturing facilities. That obviously represents a significant opportunity.

We continue to streamline our corporate Center and enabling function services. We continue to believe there's additional opportunities there. And then we're looking at all of our functions, everything that we do, in terms of where there are there opportunities to be more efficient, more productive, we've been doing that. We'll continue to do that. But those are some of the opportunity areas relative to what we can do on a going-forward basis and why I said where we are relative to the continuum.

IAN READ: Yes, and we don't really release variable affixed costs on any individual products for competitive reasons.

OPERATOR: Mark Urness, UBS.

MARK URNESS, ANALYST, UBS: Ian, in the past, you have talked about cost-cutting in Europe and how you're really focused on taking more costs out of Europe and changing the business model a little bit. I was wondering if you are prepared to talk about that a little bit? Second question is on gross margin. Once we eliminate these 10 plants and once we get through a couple more years of patent expiries -- what is the sustainable gross margin? Are we still around 80%?

IAN READ: Europe is -- the opportunities in Europe, of course, center around, as the European Union moves towards more centralized regulatory environment, what do you need to do on a country-by-country basis to maintain a commercially competitive organization. What do you need to do to maintain your marketing, your medical, and the infrastructure?

And if you compare Europe with the US, which is a lot simpler, because it's federal and it's one regulation. But as Europe moves towards that, and we tend to look at the treatment of Europe, while not identical but more similarly to a structure you have in the US. But I'll ask John Young if he wants to add anything to that as he's been managing -- previously managing Europe for some considerable time.

JOHN YOUNG: The only add I would give is obviously as we do in all of our regions with all of our businesses around the world, one of the things that we will continue to do is to make sure that we deploy our resources in line with the opportunity to generate revenue growth and value for shareholders.

That is something that we've been doing very actively, as you know, over the last three to four years. And in line with the continued evolution of the pipeline, we'll continue to deploy our resources appropriately in Europe to maximize our shareholder value as the portfolio continues to evolve.

IAN READ: Thank you. Frank, do you want to try to answer the gross margin question?

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think clearly there will be downward pressure on our gross margin on a going-forward basis when you think about how the mix of our revenues is changing. But I think the thing to focus on is our operating margins. We can continue to generate cost-reduction and productivity improvements to keep that operating margin relatively constant on a going-forward basis.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank, and thank you, everybody for being flexible with the date change, and thanks for your time this morning.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's Pfizer's third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gbreac : Breast Cancer | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcancr : Cancer | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121115e8b1003ml
  


 HD
 Q2  2012  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,220 words
   PD
31 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP - IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Operator. Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's second-quarter 2012 performance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research & Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel, President and General Manager of Pfizer Nutrition; and John Young, President and General Manager of Primary Care. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at www.pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2012 located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

The discussions during this call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, July 31, 2012.

In addition, we will offer some brief comments regarding our preparation and target time line for the potential initial public offering of a minority stake in our Animal Health business, Zoetis. As I am sure you will understand, we are not going to be able to respond to questions on that subject in light of the quiet period imposed by the Securities laws. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck. During my remarks this morning, I will briefly discuss the quarter and provide some context concerning recent late-stage pipeline developments. Beginning with the quarter, our performance was solid. Noteworthy highlights include solid revenue and margin performance compared to the year-ago quarter, despite the negative revenue impact of $1.8 billion resulting primarily from the losses of exclusivity of Lipitor in most major markets as well as Caduet, Xalatan and Geodon in the US.

We had strong performance in Emerging Markets with 14% operational growth quarter over quarter driven by volume growth mainly in key markets such as China and Russia, as well as the timing of government purchase of Prevenar 13 in Turkey and Enbrel in Brazil. Of particular note, China grew 36% operationally, driven in large part by the targeted investments we have made in our Chinese -- our China sales force and the strength of our cardiovascular portfolio in China. We had greater expense discipline resulting from our ongoing efforts to streamline operations and focus R&D programs. Quarter over quarter, adjusted SI&A expenses decreased 16% operationally and adjusted R&D expenses decreased 18%.

The Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare businesses achieved good operational performance quarter over quarter. Animal Health grew 7% and our Consumer Healthcare grew 11% driven primarily by the addition of products from the recent acquisition of Ferrosan and Alacer Corp. And we are continuing to create value for shareholders through share repurchases. During the quarter, we repurchased $1.3 billion of common stock and have purchased about $3 billion since the beginning of this year. On a full year basis, we expect to repurchase approximately $5 billion of common stock.

Regarding Animal Health, we anticipate filing a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission by mid-August for a potential initial public offering of up to 20% ownership stake in the business to be named Zoetis. We are targeting completion of the IPO in the first half of 2013. As we continue to work towards this potential IPO and the potential full separation, we remain open to all alternatives that would maximize the after tax return for our shareholders.

Concerning the pending sale of the Nutrition business to Nestle, we remain on track to close the sale by the first half of 2013. We will work to maximize the after-tax proceeds and expect to allocate those proceeds for share repurchases while also considering other value-creating opportunities with the return on share repurchases remaining the case to beat.

Given our performance year to date, I believe we are well positioned going into the second half of this year. By staying focused on our current course, we are building a sustainable, innovative core and creating shareholder value. A few words about the Innovative Core. The actions we set in motion early in 2011 to improve R&D productivity are starting to bear results. We have a pipeline that I believe includes potential high-value assets at all stages of the development continuum across our key therapeutic areas. Of particular note is the strength of our oncology, vaccines, inflammation and cardiovascular portfolios. And our early-stage portfolio is increasingly comprised of new therapies based on precision medicine approach, an approach we believe yields more targeted treatments to patients. We have Precision Medicine efforts under way at various stages in our pipeline across several therapeutic areas including diabetes, oncology and cardiovascular. We have a sharp focus on the Innovative Core. I believe we're able to create a portfolio that matches our areas of expertise and that positions us for long-term growth.

In terms of the late-stage pipeline, we are in ongoing discussions with the FDA about the regulatory reviews of Eliquis and tofacitinib and remain enthusiastic about the potential commercial prospects for each of those important therapies. Regarding Eliquis, as we and our alliance partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb previously said, the FDA has requested additional information on data management and verification from the Eliquis ARISTOTLE trial. They have not requested any new studies, and along with Bristol-Myers we are working closely with the FDA and are confident we can address and resolve their questions. We will provide an update when we have new information to share on the status of the review.

Concerning tofacitinib, as you know, the FDA Advisory Committee recommended approval on May 9. Subsequent to that meeting, the FDA requested additional analysis of the existing data in our NDA. We are planning on providing them that information in early August. Given the timing of the additional analysis requested, we anticipate that the FDA may require additional time beyond the August 21 PDUFA date to review this information. In another tofacitinib development, we now have the top line results of our Phase 3 study 1069, also known as ORAL Start. As a reminder, this study was conducted in Methotrexate-naive moderate to severe RA patients and it evaluated the use of tofacitinib in 5 or 10 milligrams twice daily doses as monotherapy compared to Methotrexate. 1069 included a structural end point. I am pleased to share with you that the study met all of its primary end points at both the 5 and 10 BID doses, including demonstrating statistically significant changes versus Methotrexate in inhibiting structural damage. We are issuing a press release on these top line results following today's call and will provide more information about this study at upcoming scientific meetings. Because the study only recently read out, it was not part of our NDA submission and is not under FDA review. We are exploring the most appropriate method and timing to submit this information. Overall, we are confident in the efficacy and safety profile of tofacitinib and believe that it would make an important contribution to the treatment of RA.

And now a few comments about the recent top line results with bapineuzumab study 302 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who carry the ApoE4 genotype. As we recently reported, study 302 did not meet the co-primary clinical end points, no statistically significant benefit was seen in changes in cognitive or functional performance in the bapineuzumab-treated group compared to placebo. Study 302 was the first of four placebo controlled Phase 3 studies complete in the bapineuzumab development program. The Janssen-led study in noncarriers, study 301, has just completed and the data is being evaluated. We plan to report the data to regulators and announce the top line results in August. Of note, both study 301 and 302 have been accepted as late-breaker presentations and will be presented at the European Federation for Neurological Societies meeting in Stockholm in September.

Looking ahead to the second half of this year, we will continue to work on our cost structure, inclusive of everything from manufacturing, corporate functions, our go-to-market strategy and continuing to execute on our existing R&D plans. Our work across these areas should enhance our ability to create incremental value for our shareholders and invest in potentially new treatments that address unmet medical needs in such areas as cancer, neuroscience, pain and vaccines for infectious diseases. For the foreseeable future, we expect the operating environment will remain challenging and uncertain, especially in Europe, and we will have to offset the impact of upcoming LOEs as well as expirations of co-promotion and licensing rights over the next couple of years as we embark on new product launches and generate growth in Emerging Markets. Despite these challenging market forces, we are demonstrating through our quarterly performance, both in this quarter and in recent quarters, that the fundamentals of our business are strong. Our capital allocation decisions are sound. And our colleagues are skilled at navigating in uncertain and sometimes inconsistent markets. For these reasons, I remain optimistic about our ability to generate consistent, predictable earnings per share growth over time.

To sum up, we turned in another quarter of solid performance. We remain enthusiastic about the potential commercial opportunities we see for tofacitinib, Eliquis and Prevnar 13 adult. We continue to build a track record of consistent performance that provides us with a firm foundation for steady future earnings per share growth. Now I'll turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian, good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. I want to remind you that the Nutrition business is presented as a discontinued operation in consolidated statements of income for all periods presented given the pending sale of that business to Nestle. As you know, discontinued operations are excluded from adjusted financial results, and consequently throughout 2012, the results of the Nutrition business will be excluded from adjusted results.

Now let's move on to the financials. Second-quarter revenues of $15.1 billion decreased 9% year over year reflecting an operational decline of approximately 6%, driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies, notably Lipitor in most major markets. Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.62 increased approximately 5% which primarily reflects the favorable impact of lower expenses resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives and fewer weighted average shares outstanding due to our share repurchases, and the unfavorable impact of the loss of exclusivity of certain products, including Lipitor in most major markets. Foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter revenues by 3% or $451 million, and favorably impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A and adjusted R&D expenses by $396 million or 4%. As a result, foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter adjusted diluted EPS by less than $0.01.

In the second quarter, Emerging Markets Biopharmaceutical revenue increased 8% to approximately $2.6 billion, reflecting operational growth of 14% and the negative impact of foreign exchange of 6%. Volume growth of 15% in Emerging Markets, primarily in China and Russia, were partially offset by price reductions of 1% resulting in the operational growth of 14%. The second quarter Emerging Markets Biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 41% was generated by Established Products, 33% by Specialty and Oncology products and 26% by Primary Care products. Established Products revenues generated by sales in Emerging Markets increased 17% operationally year over year.

Specialty Care and Oncology total revenues in Emerging Markets increased 14% operationally and Primary Care revenues in Emerging Markets increased 12% operationally. With respect to BRIC-MT markets, second quarter Biopharmaceutical revenues increased 12% to approximately $1.2 billion, reflecting operational growth of 20% and the negative impact of foreign exchange of 8%. Of the second quarter BRIC-MT Biopharmaceutical revenues, approximately 42% was generated by Established Products, 32% by Specialty and Oncology products and 26% by Primary Care products. Revenues for Established Products sold in BRIC-MT markets increased 24% operationally year over year. Specialty Care and Oncology total revenues in BRIC-MT markets grew 21% operationally and Primary Care revenues in BRIC-MT markets grew 13% operationally.

During the second quarter, Biopharmaceutical volume growth of 24% in the BRIC-MT markets was partially offset by price reductions of 4%, resulting in operational growth of 20%. These markets contributed about 62% of Emerging Market Biopharmaceutical operational growth versus second quarter 2011. Year-to-date operational growth in the BRIC-MT markets was 15% versus the year-ago period, reflecting volume growth of 20%, partially offset by price reductions of 5%.

We're reaffirming all components of our 2012 financial guidance which we updated in our first quarter 2012 earnings announcement in May to exclude the results of the Nutrition business from our revenue guidance and our adjusted financial guidance. Our second-quarter results reflect our continued solid operational performance, despite the negative impact of the loss of exclusivity, certain products in most major markets, mainly Lipitor in the US and in most major markets. We anticipate filing a registration statement with the SEC by mid-August for a potential initial public offering of up to a 20% ownership stake in the Animal Health business to be named Zoetis. We are targeting the first half of 2013 to complete the potential IPO. As we continue to work toward a potential separation of the business, we remain open to all alternatives to maximize the after-tax return for our shareholders. We expect to complete the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestle by the first half of 2013. Additional repurchases of our common stock remain the case to beat for the use of the after tax proceeds following the completion of the transaction.

Given the potential of our late-stage and emerging pipeline, our strong operating cash flow, streamlined organization and disciplined approach to capital allocation, we remain confident that we are well-positioned for long-term success. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2012 and beyond with approximately $3 billion or 136.6 million shares repurchased through July 30. And we continue to expect to repurchase approximately $5 billion of our common stock in 2012. Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. And at this point, Operator, if we could please poll the participants for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I actually have a number of questions but maybe Ian, if we could just start with sort of bigger picture. Given the activity around Nutritionals and Animal Health, if you could frame for the investment community your thinking around how you envision the reshaping of Pfizer post the Nutritionals and Animal Health spin, what is Pfizer going to look like? And do you envision an opportunity to further reshape the portfolio going forward?

Secondly, for you, Frank, is it safe to assume that the changes in the FX rates since you reported your first quarter and obviously the euro has dropped quite a bit, would have an impact on the balance of 2013 but that you are able to absorb it and how?

And then my third question, back to you, Ian, and I'm sure there are a million questions on the call relates to the Animal Health spin. Is there a minimum time line for which you would have to wait to spin the 80% of the Animal Health business that you would continue to own after the partial IPO? Just trying to get a sense for how quickly you could fully monetize the entire business once you've taken the 20% to the market. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Jami. I'll ask Frank actually to handle both the FX and the Animal Health minimum spin time. And as to your first question about reshaping, when we've completed, I think we discussed this several times, when we've completed the separation of Nutritional and the potential separation of Animal Health, I basically see us as a Company that has two core businesses with Consumer fitting into either one of those. But the two core businesses, one being what we could call Innovative Co or Growth Co and the other one being a Value Company. The Value Company being represented by large brands sold around the world with reasonably large infrastructure, good channel presence. And the Innovative Co being a Company which has growth from innovative products, a research organization sized for that size of that opportunity.

And we have started already down this path of managing the Company that way by our BU structure where we have basically Innovative Co inside the BU structures of Specialty and Oncology and Primary Care. And then outside of that we manage Emerging Markets in a more traditional method of country-based organizations. So through '13 and '14, we will continue to refine our operational structure to maximize the values of those two distinct businesses and we will see how the value of those two businesses are reflected in our growth and our share price and then take decisions based on that. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure, thanks, Ian. So Jamie on the FX question, if you look at our basket of currencies and you look from our last earnings call where our guidance was based on mid-April rates and then you look at this earnings call where our guidance is based on mid-July FX rates, currency has moved against us and it's moved against us for the year to the tune of a few cents. We absorbed that in our guidance and obviously reaffirmed guidance as a result. The way we did that was through combination of things, but primarily our cost reduction and productivity initiatives. If you look at our numbers for the quarter, on a year-over-year basis, our adjusted cost of sales, our adjusted SI&A and our adjusted R&D all in were down about 12% operationally. And so it's that performance, and it's down 10% operationally on a year-to-date basis, that allowed us to mitigate the adverse effect of foreign exchange from the previous quarter to this quarter.

In terms of the other question you asked about the time line on Animal Health and make sure I've got it right which was from the time of the potential IPO to the time of I'll call it the potential full separation, what are we thinking about? I'll tell you how we think about this which is typically you want a quarter or two of some operational performance of the Company so you can kind of demonstrate what I call the rhythm of the businesses. So I think one will be you want a quarter or two of operating performance to demonstrate rhythm. And then two, the other thing that will inform us is the macro economic conditions, what's going on in the markets and I think those things in combination will drive the time line between a potential IPO and then a potential full separation.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, Operator.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert from Merrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: First on Eliquis were the issues raised by the FDA in the CRL likely to be raised by other regulatory bodies around the world, and have you been proactive about that? Secondly, Ian, what's your latest thinking on whether to weed or feed your generic business over the coming months and years? And third, can you talk about the decision to drop the Acura program and what can we read into regarding Embeda, Remoxy and your commitment to that franchise? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Gregg. Well I'm going to ask John to answer the Eliquis question and also the Acura question. Regarding weed or feed our generic business, I mean we have Greenstone in the US. It's a well run business. I think it's an important part of our overall established products presence. We continue to invest where appropriate in branded generics and generics. We take a regional approach to that. We've done investments in Brazil, we've done investments in China. This is a very local business and we're committed to being successful in the presence in these BRIC-MT markets. So we will continue to be opportunistic on how we strengthen those businesses. John, would you want to take the Eliquis and the Acura question?

JOHN YOUNG, PRESIDENT, GM- PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC.: Okay. Thanks, Gregg. So if I take Eliquis first of all, as we obviously previously stated the CRL that we received from the FDA requested some additional information on the data management and verification from our pivotal ARISTOTLE study, which as you know was a very big study, around about 18,000 patients with atrial fibrillation. I think one point which is really important to make is that it's our belief that the information requested doesn't impact the outcome measures of the trial and importantly, as Ian's already said, we haven't been requested to conduct any additional studies. So our confidence in the results from both the ARISTOTLE trial and the AVERROES trial hasn't changed. In terms of our discussions with other regulators around the world, both in the EU and other countries, those discussions are progressing aligned with the timelines per our filing dates that we've previously announced.

If I then pick up on the King products, just to give you an update on where we are there. With Embeda, as we previously communicated, we are very confident that we'll be able to return Embeda to the marketplace. And we expect to submit a prior approval supplement to the FDA by the first half of 2013.

On Remoxy, as we previously stated there, based on the work completed by our technical team over the past several months, we remain cautiously optimistic we'll be able to bring Remoxy to the marketplace. We have preliminary results from two bioavailability studies that are currently being analyzed along with data from experiments designed to optimize the formulation composition analytical methods for that product. And upon completion of those analyses, we'll determine the timing and the nature of our engagement with the FDA to address the complete response letter that we received in June last year. And at this time we're certainly hoping to meet with the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2012.

So lastly, if I just pick up briefly on Acura, we decided to return the license development and commercialization rights to three smaller early-stage immediate release assets to our development partner Acura based on our ongoing portfolio prioritization for not only our opioids portfolio but in line with our standard practice. I think it's important to say in regard to those particular technologies, that immediate release wasn't a high priority area for Pfizer but we do continue to work on Oxecta that was launched earlier on this year.

IAN READ: Thank you, John.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman from UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, first, can you help us just quantify on Prevnar some of the one-offs just so we understand what the underlying growth is for Prevnar? Second, can you talk about where you are in taking expenses out of the business. I mean, are we halfway through the nine inning game, are we three-quarters of the way through? I know you've talked about Europe as an area that you're really focusing on and trying to take some costs out and could you give us some specifics on kind of what you have left to do there?

And then third, just on the gross margin, can you just remind us again like what's going on kind of behind the scenes on the gross margin, which seems to be much stronger than we would expect? I didn't hear the numbers that you had called out as far as FX related. And then I was just curious I mean obviously with Lipitor going off, everyone thought the gross margin would fall off much more and yet it's not. Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay, thank you, Marc. I'll ask Frank to take the European gross margin first, probably, and then ask Geno to make some comments on overall vaccine growth.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on gross margins, let me run the numbers and then I'll answer the question which is -- and I'll do it in terms of just cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue. So this quarter it was 17.7%. It was down from 18.3% in the year-ago quarter. But if you adjust that 17.7% for foreign exchange, it was actually about 19%, which is I'll call it in line with the guidance we provided for the year. Now, what's going on there, Marc, is clearly the benefit of cost reductions, and I'll talk to that in the second question that you asked me, and then kind of what's working against that was really the impact of Lipitor. But when you put that all together, you get the 17.7% that we reported but it had the benefit of foreign exchange, which if you removed would take you to about 19%. And the FX benefit to COGS this quarter was about $285 million. So it reduced COGS by $285 million, which is how I get from the 17.7% to the 19% or so.

In terms of where we are, I think you said, you used the baseball analogy in terms of what inning are we relative to cost reduction. I would describe it as we're not in the early innings anymore. I think we're clearly in the middle innings but clearly with opportunities quite frankly throughout the business. We continue to work on things like streamlining our manufacturing network through productivity initiatives and working on the productivity of each of our individual plants. We've announced that over the next several years we believe we can further reduce our plant network strategy-- our plant network by another 10 facilities or so. So still lots of opportunities there.

In SI&A, we continue to streamline our corporate functions. In R&D, we continue to execute on our engines for sustainable innovation product in terms of the therapeutic areas that we focused on and the therapeutic areas that we discontinued and the work that we do in those areas. So if I had to net it all out, I'd say we're in the middle innings and they're still- with everything that we've accomplished, there's still significant opportunities going forward.

IAN READ: Geno.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT, GM- SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC.: Yes, Marc just to comment on Prevnar, on the Pediatric business, business is good in Europe and the United States. And what we're seeing now is a return to kind of the stable growth that we've experienced in the past now that the catch-up opportunity is fundamentally completed. So we're looking at quarterly and year-to-date results on the developed markets that are similar to a baseline that we can expect going forward. Japan, we continue to see strong growth as the formal immunization, national immunization program is continuing to roll out there. Remember, that's Prevnar 7 and we're continuing the registration process to introduce the 13-valant and expect to pursue a catch-up opportunity when we do have the 13-valant there as well.

And then in the Emerging Markets, we continue to see very strong growth of the Prevnar business for the quarter and year to date on what's becoming a reasonable base now, not just good growth on a small base. On the adult side, we're making good progress. As you know, in the US this is a business that's driven by ACIP recommendations. Fortunately, the ACIP did make a recommendation to support immunization of immunocompromised patients. That's a good step in the right direction.

We've also seen progress with some quality measures through CMS that we expect to help open the door for additional growth for Prevnar adult going into the end of the year and the beginning of next year. And around the world, we continue to see registrations in all of the developed and Emerging Markets for adult and we're starting to see promotion and some limited uptake there as we start to introduce the adult vaccine on a global basis.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

CHUCK TRIANO: Operator, if we can move to our next question, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenbaum from ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hello, guys. Congrats actually on a really nice quarter. The-- I had a couple questions. The first, you may not answer but I thought I'd ask it, on Bapineuzumab, is there a consideration that you may file in the noncarriers group even if you missed your primary endpoint but you see interesting signals in subgroups?

Second question is on EM, this plus 14% year on year is very impressive and well above your annual guidance. I was looking for a little more color on that. Do you recommend we extrapolate that forward or should we keep kind of long-term growth rates a little lower than that? Third on tofa, any more color on what the FDA has asked for and can you get the ORAL Start data in the FDA's hands before they write the label? And I ask specifically around structural progression.

And finally a really quick one, I know you guys have said in the past you plan on breaking out -- sorry, you said you were considering breaking out the Value business versus the Growth business for reporting purposes in the Ks and Qs next year, I'm just wondering where that decision stands? Thanks a lot.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mark. Well you're quite right, we can't comment on the Bapi situation because we haven't seen the results of the trial yet, it's still blinded to us. So when we do have those results, we'll think about all the things you asked the questions on.

On breaking out the Value and Growth Co, once we get through the potential separation of Animal Health and the separation of Nutritional, we'll step back and look at the business and see what is the best way to ensure that the analysts have transparency on to what we see as the core drivers of the business. So we want to be transparent there. With that, I would ask perhaps if Olivier could give a little more context around Emerging Markets, the growth in different marketplaces. And on tofa, Geno may want to make some comments on tofa for us.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, PRESIDENT, GM- EMERGING MARKETS AND ESTABLISHED MARKETS, PFIZER INC.: So in Emerging Markets, we continue to be optimistic and we see attractive opportunities across Emerging Markets and all of that of course related to increased population and wealth of these nations. And while we are seeing a low amount which is currently spent on healthcare of course. So as you have seen, we have posted 14% operational growth for Q2 and it's driven by very good performance in BRIC-MT. You've seen the results for BRIC-MT is about 20% operationally but it's 24% in terms of volume growth and there is an impact of 4% of price. So we will continue, we know that, to expect to see quarter-to-quarter volatility in Emerging Markets and it's more appropriate probably to look at our results on a 12-month basis and our goal for this year and future years is to grow our Emerging Market business by high-single digits over time.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier.

GENO GERMANO: Okay, so with regard to tofa, we think-- we see the review progressing very nicely. We filed the NDA at the end of last year. We had a very quick Advisory Committee meeting in May, a very positive outcome. In fact, the only thing material that the Advisory Committee would have liked to have seen more of is more structured data and now we have the additional structure data, so we see that as a positive development.

With regard to the analyses that the FDA has requested, it's basically a routine analysis. It's a very large NDA. We have five Phase 3 pivotal trials, 5,000 patients and they've asked for some additional analyses. This is very common to request additional analyses and even to do their own analyses. And we're busy putting that together and we plan to have it to them certainly ahead of the action date so that they can determine their next step. So with regard to the 1069 structure data, the FDA is aware that we have the top line results and we will find the most appropriate way to get the data to them for consideration in future labeling.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno. Go to Tim.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, yes.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Two questions on Prevnar 13, then a couple others. Can you get any real commercial traction in adults ahead of CAPiTA or does it all really depend on that? Also, have you done an interim look at those results? I believe one was built into the protocol. On tofacitinib, do you expect to get both the 5 and the 10-milligram doses approved? And then last question, in terms of the next round of pipeline products beyond the ones like tofacitinib and Eliquis, what are the two or three products that excite you the most?

IAN READ: Okay. Thank you, Tim. So we'll ask Geno to discuss the adult indication opportunity of Prevnar 13 and the tofa question on dose. And then ask Mikael Dolsten to comment a little bit on the next wave of products. Thank you.

GENO GERMANO: So I mean, with Prevnar 13 adult, look what we know is that there's a huge disease burden out there. We've-- I think I've quoted the statistics many times before, in the US we know there's 300,000 hospitalizations a year for pneumococcal pneumonia, 20,000 deaths associated with pneumococcal pneumonia. So we believe there is an opportunity to build a business on the basis of just the need for the vaccine alone. But having said that, it's true that it is a -- the-- historically in the vaccine business, it's CDC recommendations that are the real drivers and the CDC recommendation is likely to be most influenced by the CAPiTA trial. So we're going to do the best we can to build this business from the ground up from now until we have those CAPiTA results and certainly the CAPiTA results will be a major driver, and hopefully that gives you a sense for what our thinking is.

In terms of the interim look on the CAPiTA trial, the interim look I believe was only to give a sense for how many events had occurred and we don't have any insight into the number of events that have occurred in the placebo group versus the vaccinated group. So we don't have any insight into early read on effectiveness. As you know, this is an event-driven trial and we'll have a final result when there are accumulation of enough events to determine the outcome.

With regard to tofa, 5 milligrams and 10 milligrams, I think the question was do we expect both? We certainly believe that we've demonstrated through the five pivotal trials that we've done a very consistent and robust effect of both the 5 and the 10-milligram, had a certainly acceptable safety profile. So the advisory committee had a review of the two doses and we know that they were supportive of both doses. We know rheumatologists would like to have both doses available and we believe that our NDA supports both doses. So that's our feeling on the two doses. And I don't know if the next round of innovative products was Mikael.

IAN READ: Mikael was going to comment on that.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT- WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: So thank you for showing interest in our rich portfolio beyond tofacitinib and Eliquis. So I'll just give you a couple of examples in four of our therapeutic areas. In vaccines, you will see really a rich pipeline evolving. We have agreed with regulators in major regions about meningitis B study design. And we are starting at a Phase 3 now. We also have a very exciting Staph aureus program where we are industry-leading and we have completed a first Phase 2 and are heading into the second Phase 2.

Oncology as Ian alluded to, it's really a growing, exciting area for us. We have tofacitinib as the leading antibody drug conjugate for hematological malignancies and also best-in-class dacomitinib for lung cancer based on precision medicine. And you may not have seen our CDK drug that's going into breast cancer. Also based on precision medicine.

Finally, immunology and inflammation, please note our life cycle management of tofacitinib going to inflammatory bowel disease, psoriasis. But also our really best-in-class IL-6 antibody for both lupus and inflammatory bowel disease opportunity. And also beyond Eliquis in cardio metabolic, you should keep an eye on programs such as pancreatic glucokinase activator and also PSK kinase field.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Mikael. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: First on the gross margin trends, looking at your second half I think to hit the midpoint of your range it does imply a fairly substantial drop in margins. Could you just elaborate a little bit more on that? I know we had some currency benefit first half, but it does seem like quite a big step down.

The second question was on the established product division. I think we've had new leadership there since our last call, I mean is there any change in focus or priorities for that division? And then finally one that I don't know if you'll comment on, but as we think about the Value versus Established or versus Growth core here, when we get out to 2014 or '15 you've had more time to evolve the strategy and if we're not getting the value for those businesses in your share price would you be open to splitting those franchises apart or do you see meaningful structural issues that would not allow you to do that given the shared resources? Is that even something I'd say I guess on the table as we look out a few years? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. So on the Established -- I'll ask Frank to answer the gross margin question in a moment, on Established Products and Emerging Markets, Olivier Brandicourt has taken over the leadership of those two areas. He has a long experience in pharmaceuticals both in Emerging Markets and Developed Markets, so I would ask him to make a brief comment on what he sees as to the Established Products.

But before he does that, on the question on Value and Growth Co, we are focused at Pfizer on shareholder value and ensuring shareholder value. So we will evaluate those questions you posed and we will take the decisions that will best drive shareholder value at that time. I think that's the best way really to answer that question and one that we continue to show that we are focused on ensuring shareholder value is optimized.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: All right on Established Products, I must say I'm very optimistic and I see very attractive opportunities with this business, which is very new to me. So we have a strategy which looks at both segments of the LOE market, branded and generics. For the brands, we are trying to leverage our leadership, not only in quality but also in reliability of supply which has been a problem as you know in many countries, and also in the enhancement of product value. For the generics themselves, we focus our investment in different what we call profitable pockets of the market and more specifically the sterile injectable and oral solids when they are very much differentiated. So we posted about 18% operational growth during Q2 and of course that was very much driven by the fact that we have inherited in this division a few LOE products, and Lipitor being the largest one, both in the US and in Japan.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier.

CHRIS SCHOTT: All right, thanks, Olivier.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then on the second half COGS relative to the first half, what I'm going to do is I'm going to bump it up a level and talk not just about COGS but about earnings as well in terms of the second half of the year versus the first half of the year. And we've got a couple of factors that will impact all of the second half of the year or a portion of the second half of the year that didn't impact the first half at all or impacted it only partially and these are I'll call them negative factors. So for example, in the US with Lipitor, Lipitor began facing multi-sourced generic competition in the US on May 30. So not an impact for the entire first half of the year, but that'll be an impact for the second half of the year. That will obviously adversely affect cost of goods sold, it'll also adversely affect EPS.

Same thing in Lipitor in Europe, where once again began facing multi-source generic competition in March and May. So you'll get the full year effect of that, at least the second half you'll get the full impact of that. Now same thing with Geodon which in the US began facing multi-source generic competition in March of this year. Then if you go out for the remainder of the year, we have anticipated LOEs for Detrol in the US and Europe and Revatio in the US in September which will adversely affect earnings and that has an impact on our overall other things like cost of goods sold as well. So it's those kind of factors that we factored into our guidance that'll impact the second half of the year that didn't have as much of an impact in the first half of the year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. And Operator if we can please move to the next questioner.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Many of the pressure points Frank you just identified will linger into 2013. Would you be able to provide any perspective on 2013 relative to the trend versus 2012? Can we anticipate an up year, a flat year or what? Secondly on Spiriva, what markets has Pfizer already given back to BI and what significant markets are to be given back in the second half of the year? And then thirdly, did you formally drop your follow-on CETP inhibitor, and if so, was it because the agent wasn't optimal or do you feel the area is too speculative? Thank you so much, bye.

IAN READ: Okay. So Frank, if you could handle the impact into 2013 and then we would ask John if you could take the question on Spiriva. And finally Mikael on the CETP.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So in terms of what I said on the previous question relative to the second half of the year and then how that impacts 2013, let me just start with we haven't provided guidance yet on 2013. That's something we'll do obviously later on. But in terms of just I'll call it positive items and negative items, I went through some of the negative items. Some the positive items that'll have a positive rhythm going into 2013 include things like the strength in some of our in-line products.

So for example, this past quarter Lyrica, Enbrel, Prevnar 13, Celebrex, all had very strong operational growth. Lyrica globally 18%, Enbrel 15%, Prevnar 13, 14%, Celebrex, 7%, and internationally, even stronger growth rates. For example, Prevnar 13 internationally grew 33%. These are all year-over-year operationally. So certain key products in the in-line portfolio have been growing very nicely. We expect those to continue to grow nicely going into 2013.

Our new products, things like Xalkori, Inlyta, those are products that we expect and obviously the products that we talked about before like Eliquis for example. Then geographic expansion. So we had emerging market growth this past quarter of 14%, 15% on volume. BRIC-MT markets grew 20% operationally, 24% on volume. We expect to continue to see growth in those areas as well. And then obviously we'll continue to try to allocate our capital in ways that will be an enabler of growth on a going forward basis. So those are some of the kind of the positive rhythms and the negative ones that'll impact 2013 and we'll provide guidance on '13 like we always do when we close out this year and then provide guidance for 2013.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. John, could you make some comments on Spiriva?

JOHN YOUNG: Yes, sure. So thanks for your questions, Steve. So based on our 10-year contract with Boehringer Ingelheim, the termination date differs country by country and it's calculated from the launch date of the product in each country. The EU countries will begin contract exit in the 2012/13 period. US, Japan in 2014 and the last country is finishing in 2016, aligned with our contract.

IAN READ: Thank you. Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. As you know, we and others were regionally interested in CETP inhibitors as a mean to help regulate good cholesterol HDL and reverse cholesterol transport. Our view currently is that that field has uncertainty and we have not been keen in progressing until there is more signs that understands the potential role of this mechanism as a way of changed risk factors in cardiovascular disease. Instead, we think further focus on LDL lowering and also anti-inflammatory mechanism has been the main focus now.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Michael. Next question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold from Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: First of all, on tofa I wondered your comments about the Start study and achieving your primary endpoint on all doses bodes very positively. Obviously with the advisory committee there was some debate regarding the radiographic changes and the implications of those with Pfizer coming out with one dose having a positive effect and the FDA coming out with a different answer based on a different analytical method. So I guess I just wondered, could you express sort of your confidence that there won't be this difference of opinion in terms of the radiographic effect of both doses?

And then on Bapi, I wonder if you could comment if you will address any pulled data findings in press releases prior to the meeting in Sweden. And then I know you'll love this last question so I can't help myself. But it's in regards to your definition of top line and what you're putting in the press release. Should we assume that when you report study 301 that that definition will continue to be nothing below the primary endpoint in efficacy, meaning if there are any trends positive or negative in the subpopulations we won't know that until Sweden? And then I would assume the top line definition, and this is going to a conversation with Chuck, in regards to the side effects with an incidence of greater than 1%. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Catherine. I didn't quite understand the question on pull on Bapi. Could you expand on that, what were you trying to get at? You can't come back, okay. Well then we'll go to tofa with Geno. We'll try and answer your Bapi question and we'll also go to the top line question you have with John.

GENO GERMANO: So hi, Catherine. Just a comment on the structure data. The data as you know that was presented to the advisory committee and discussed during the Advisory Committee was from 1044 and in that study we had a different population. These were patients who had experienced methotrexate for the most part, and one of the design challenges for that trial was that the patients were on placebo for a very short period of time and then their structure progression was extrapolated. And I think it was acknowledged by the Advisory Committee that this is a very difficult study designed to demonstrate the difference in structure progression between the active group and the placebo group.

What we found in that study was that neither the placebo group nor the tofa group progressed very much and the separation was significant at the 10-milligram but not at the 5-milligram on the primary analysis. Other secondary analysis did demonstrate significance at both 5 and 10. So there was a lot of discussion around the study design and why the results were what they were and the sensitivity analyses, and I think it was acknowledged that it was a difficult way to demonstrate a difference in structure.

Now on the other hand, the 1069 study is a different study in a different patient population. These are patients who hadn't been exposed to methotrexate. They were progressing more rapidly in their disease and the separation between methotrexate and tofacitinib is much more pronounced, and clearly there was significance at both the 5 and 10-milligram doses. And I think that this absolutely establishes the disease modifying capability of the drug and that's what the FDA is-- should be basing their decision on. So we feel pretty good about these results.

IAN READ: Yes the only thing I'd add to that of course there's a timing issue. The FDA hasn't formally got the 1069 and so we'll have to see how we best incorporate that into the eventual label of tofacitinib. Olivier could you answer the Bapi question, if you understood them?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Hopefully, Catherine, you will have the answer to your question. Just as a status update, so we have announced last week of course the 302 core primary endpoint results. And we believe that it was the right decision to make, not only to inform regulatory authorities but also the right decision for patient investigators because patients needed to be re-consented in the overall program, the entire program.

The second decision we've made was as an alliance was to expedite the interim analysis on the ongoing 3001, the international carrier study. The results will help us inform the risk benefit profile of the asset and we know that we have enough patients who have completed the study to do a pretty strong interim analysis and futility analysis. So the other decision we've made was for the Extension study. We have discontinued that study because we think the clinical benefit was just not demonstrated.

To your question regarding 301, 301 will be reported to you in the format of top line results and only co-primary endpoints will be reported and that will happen during the month of August. And finally, all results including secondary endpoints and biomarkers, all of that will be reported as you know in Stockholm early September.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: So first off, for Ian, as we kind of look forward at the different opportunities in the business, what aspects are you most excited about? Are you really more excited about what you're seeing in the innovation portion of the business and if there are products that you would call out that you're particularly excited about, given your long history, which ones would you call out? And then -- and again, more on sort of the near term and longer term pipeline if you would.

Second, as it relates to tofacitinib, Geno, maybe you could just comment on should we think about this data that FDA has requested as sort of the typical major amendment type of situation that normally results in a three month addition, obviously not speaking for the FDA but more just speaking in your experience.

And then lastly as it relates to Bapineuzumab, Mikael, if you could just kind of give us your thoughts on biomarkers that would be important to future development of Bapineuzumab as we look at the data, should we really be focusing in on PIB/PET markers or should we be looking at CSF and tau as a potential marker going forward? Thanks a lot.

GENO GERMANO: Thank you, Seamus. So on the tofacitinib question, I think you expressed it well in the way you described the type of data that the FDA is requesting. I'm not speaking for the FDA, we continue to work with them, but we would look at the way you expressed it as being very similar to the way we see it and we'll just have to wait and see what happens with the FDA. On the-- what I'm excited about, frankly, is I'm excited about the state of the Company, about the imperatives we have, about what we're doing on innovative core and seeing real momentum and enthusiasm both at the ground level with the colleagues who are working in research and R&D, and also excited about our opportunities as a global Company in Emerging Markets with our strategies in the BRIC-MT, driving our in-line brands and also looking to launch our innovative products in those marketplaces.

So while Emerging Markets will be turbulent, we'll have ups and downs, there is in a way an irreversible move to higher GDP, higher healthcare spend, which represents a huge opportunity for an innovative Company like Pfizer to be successful in over the short and medium and long term. So Emerging Markets is a really exciting place for us, for all of our portfolio. And in the developed world, in Japan, the growing strength of innovative core is also hugely promising both in Oncology with Dacomitinib, with inotuzumab, with the CDK program, with Xalkori and the potential for Xalkori in CMET, which is a large opportunity. Our inflammation portfolio and the expansion of tofacitinib into our extensions such as Crohn's and UC. Our vaccine program is extremely strong. We have one of the best vaccine teams in the industry and we have a broad vaccine opportunities. We continue to invest in CV, both PCSK9 and the other molecules that Mikael mentioned.

So frankly, I'm enthusiastic about the short term and very enthusiastic about what I see coming through in the next-- from now to the next five years as our pipeline matures with a very strong Phase 1, Phase 2 program. The remaining question was to Mikael on --

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Biomarkers.

GENO GERMANO: On biomarkers so--

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: I think you mentioned some-- I think you already mentioned it once that our most widely monitored in the field, on one hand the PIB/PET to look at the amyloid. Are you lowering amyloid, that's number one. And are you affecting downstream signs of damage, such as p-Tau level in CSF. And I think those will be very important and we'll see what we learn from this study. And over time you will also see incorporation of more early cycle metric sensitive tests as this field moves forward. Olivier, do you want to add your point on top of it?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: The only point I can make is refer to what we have in the current program, which answers I think partially the question. So we do have PET/PIB as a marker of amyloid beta. While in the CSF, we are looking for amyloid beta data and Tau and we also have volumetric MRI. So that gives you already a sense of what we're doing already.

IAN READ: Great. Thank you, Olivier.

CHUCK TRIANO: Our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Ian you didn't call out Inlyta and Xalkori with respect to overall products and what those revenues may be. And while they may represent precision medicine as you've alluded to, the question is are you putting additional resources behind them? And then what lessons have you learned with respect to R&D that may help you win next generation precision medicine in Oncology, for example, comes out, would it be more to Sheamus' point, more to have biomarkers available at that time and be utilized with those medicines?

The second question is around again Emerging Markets. Tremendous operational growth of 14% especially when you look at 9% in Q1 and I just am interested in what changed between Q1 and Q2 other than a couple of the tenders that really led to that jump?

And then lastly, and to be fair, in Q1 in August I think it was Olivier that made the reference that once the 301 study was available you would announce the data in tandem for Bapineuzumab. And I am just curious and I haven't heard it yet, what actually changed with respect to splitting out 301 and 302? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Okay so Tony, on Inlyta and in Xalkori, probably an oversight given the richness of the number of products I wanted to mention. We're extremely excited about Inlyta. It's going well object its first launch. I think this product has a lot of legs to it and a lot of opportunity. It's going to be a product that I think its profile will develop over time and we are very optimistic about its performance in the marketplace.

And with Xalkori, I think the issue on Xalkori is as you know we're changing medical practice. We need to get doctors to have the test done to identify the specific needs of Xalkori. It's frankly slower than we expected to achieve the changes given the 3% to 5% of the population that may have the translocation. But we will continue to invest in that, and as I say, I think Xalkori may have substantial opportunity on the CMET side as well.

Mikael, do you want to comment a little bit on what you see, what we've learned on the precision medicine side and the strategies we'll use? And then I'd ask Olivier to comment further on the reason for the change on what we previously announced on Bapineuzumab.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. As Ian said, it's very exciting to be a pioneer in bringing such a transforming product as Xalkori forward. I think the two things on the learning side, currently the diagnostic practice is very much one test, one drug, and I would like to see that change. So it would be a panel of tests for a disease like lung cancer that I think will drive the utilization of the first drug in multiple drugs and grow the marketplace. And also the need to engage all the players that are involved in precision medicine, from the treating medical oncologist to the pathologist and also to the diagnostic labs and the payers. So I think as this [swell] of precision medicine stakeholders become more familiarized, I think we will see an even more significant momentum. And the way you develop those relationships I think we are in a unique position, given our learnings here.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Okay, Tony, on Emerging Markets. So we have very clear -- a very clear set of strategies which we are applying in Emerging Markets for the last two or three years and I believe they are the right strategies. So we are maximizing of course our innovative portfolio and we are building capabilities into behind that portfolio. And you heard about the results. It's very good results we've got with Prevnar. I could have mentioned Sutent, Enbrel did also very, very well during the quarter, and Lipitor especially in China.

So second one is to participate in a more meaningful way in the off-patent segment. As you heard, we've made acquisition in Brazil. We signed a partnership in with Hisun in China to that matter and we are penetrating that segment very effectively. And you've seen the growth of Established Products in Emerging Markets for this quarter has been 17% which is much larger than what we have seen in the previous quarter. We also executing very specific program in terms of access, supporting governments in Emerging Markets, China and their healthcare agenda around cardiovascular medicine, very, very active there.

And finally, I think we are taking advantage now to our commercial infrastructure and the leadership we have put in place in Emerging Markets in the last two or three years. So that's how I would summarize the answer. And then your question on 301 --

IAN READ: Why they were separated, the press releases were not together.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: All right, so initially we were thinking to put 301 and 302 together because we thought that it was best view, the results would be more meaningful in that context. However, the clarity of the results we've got on 302 led us -- led the alliance to take the decision on reporting the top line results.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier. I think on Emerging Markets, we've always said that we're going to get volatility quarter to quarter and different markets react at different times. And clearly in this quarter a lot of the BRIC-MT markets were all firing on four cylinders at the same time. I don't believe we see long term or medium term of 14% growth rate in Emerging Markets. We remain committed to our sort of high single digit for a full year growth rate. Thanks, Ian. Next question, Operator.

OPERATOR: David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have I guess three questions. The first is I'm not quite clear on the Eliquis time line from here. Can you please clarify that in terms of the FDA process and potential approval? Second, with respect to Bapineuzumab, the FDA and Pfizer and others agreed to two primary endpoints for Phase 3. Could you just discuss why the FDA is interested in seeing both cognition and function and the relative importance of cognition versus function? And then third, I was hoping that you could just characterize what the pipeline news flow is to watch in the near term beyond Bapineuzumab. So what clinical trial readout should we be focused on in the near term? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. Mikael, could you sort of take the questions on Bapineuzumab and on the pipeline news flow?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Okay. So I think you first asked about the endpoints here on cognition and function. Over the last few years we have seen from an initial more focus on the importance when we show impact on a function of performance of patients whether you use physician scores or patient reported outcome. And it was the kind of view of many regulatory agencies that you needed to look at the combined impact on cognition and function. However, I should say as we see this field move forward, there's growing interest in actually cognition as a standalone parameter both in diseases like Alzheimer's and schizophrenia which I think again opens up opportunities for drug development here.

IAN READ: Thank you. On the Eliquis time line, John.

JOHN YOUNG: Okay, thanks, David. As you heard from BMS on their call last week, we've already -- the alliance has already met with the FDA and we have an agreed plan on the requested information and we're working hard to provide that information to the FDA in September. And we're really working as expeditiously as we possibly again across the alliance to address the outstanding questions and move the application forward.

As you know, the FDA may take up to six months to review our response to a complete response letter once submitted. But we're already working with the agency and we are hopeful that the review can be completed within a shorter period of time. The alliance will issue a communication when the FDA accepts our resubmission and we'll be able to provide you with more information at that time.

IAN READ: Thank you. And Mikael, you'll make some brief comments on the pipeline flow. I would say that I think we have -- we've had a very rich year this year and still pending of course Eliquis and tofacitinib and Bosutinib news and very, very strong in our Phase 2. And do you want to comment on some of the more closer two Phase 3 studies, Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. So it's been -- I'm thrilled about the interest in the pipeline and opportunity. So I'll pick a few that we haven't touched so much on this time. In vaccines, I think there is opportunity for a potential transformative change when it comes to management of staphylococcus aureus, as you know, a tremendous healthcare burden with moderate resistance. And we are in the mid of a Phase 2 trial with our Staph aureus vaccine here.

When it comes to the whole class of antibody drug conjugate, I'm really thrilled with the strong data we have previously reported for trastuzumab. We're expanding now also from lymphoma into leukemia, starting soon Phase 3 studies. And I should say also there is a drug in our pipeline, an IV mTOR 3K inhibitor that I'm quite excited about and you will see that in addition to what we mention about CDK.

And finally, one example of an opportunity with risk but also high reward, the P38 inhibitors has been around for some time and we have actually quite exciting study in COPD and which could open potentially for a drug with disease modifying effect. So I think that gave you a mix of things of transforming capacity that's all in our pipeline, in addition to all the others that we have had an opportunity to discuss.

IAN READ: Yes and I think David, just a comment on that. I think we've had -- we will have this year and potentially in the first quarter of next year or early next year we'll have had quite a bolus of really exciting approvals from potentially Eliquis, tofacitinib, we've had Inlyta, we've had Prevnar 13 adult, we've had Xalkori. So I think we've had a rich bolus of approvals this year and potentially in the beginning of next year. And then where we need to see us progress our Phase 3 cohorts and our Phase 2s into Phase 3s, a really strong differentiated, clinically differentiated products is the thing to look at.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. And Operator, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Michael Tong from Wells Fargo.

MICHAEL TONG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Most of my questions have been answered but just a couple. First one for Ian, as you think about Innovative versus Value Co in several years' time, what current synergy exists between the two businesses as they operate now and do they represent necessarily an impediments as you think about further breaking or further separating the two businesses? And then secondly, can you provide us with an update as to your biosimilar efforts, where they stand now and how you see that space playing out?

IAN READ: Yes. So I think right now I would say at this moment in time on the synergies, clearly we have large Primary Care products that require substantial infrastructure and that is synergistic to our -- in our Emerging Markets to our branded products that sell on quality. And whether those synergies remain important really depends on how our portfolio is shaped over the next two to three to four years. So if the portfolio moves more in a direction of Specialty Products, then the potential synergies between a Value Co and an Innovative Co may be less in the future than they are today. So it really depends on how the portfolio develops, and that's why I think this is a matter of looking at this as an evolving situation as we look at our options and we look at how to manage those businesses. And the last question was?

CHUCK TRIANO: Biosimilars.

IAN READ: Biosimilars, Olivier.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: So biosimilar, we want to build on Pfizer's experience now in biologic development, manufacturing and of course commercialization. Second, the biosimilar market is expanding and is expected to grow from something around $1.5 billion today to $22 billion in 2020. So we want to build on that and we have successfully obtained IND for rituximab Pfizer product as well as trastuzumab biosimilars for Herceptin. And we have started clinical trials already.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Great and thank you everybody for your attention this morning.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Thanks, everyone.

IAN READ: Thank you. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's Pfizer second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. This concludes the conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
china : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120815e87v000fe
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,935 words
   PD
1 May 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP - IR, PFIZER INC.: Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's first quarter 2012 performance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide R&D; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel and President and General Manager of Pfizer Nutrition; and David Simmons, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.

The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage, www.pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance first quarter 2012, which is located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page. Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during the conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, May 1, 2012. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian.

IAN READ, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck. During my remarks this morning I will briefly discuss the quarter and how I see the Company evolving over time as we continue to stay focused on getting our innovative core more productive and sustainable and keeping our capital allocation priorities aligned with the best interests of shareholders. Regarding the quarter, we started the year on a solid footing. Some noteworthy highlights include good performance in Emerging Markets with 9% operational growth in revenues quarter-over-quarter. In particular, we had strong growth in three key markets; China, Mexico, and Russia.

While I'm pleased with this quarter's performance in Emerging Markets as we have said before, we still expect there will be some volatility from quarter to quarter due to ongoing pricing and macroeconomic issues. Several parts of our branded portfolio performed well. Globally, we grew revenues of Celebrex, Lyrica and ENBREL. The work we did in planning for the Lipitor LOE has proved to be successful. Five months after LOE in the US, our market share is over 2.5 times compared to other LOE analogs at the same point in time. Branded Lipitor sales in the US for the quarter were $383 million.

The Animal Health and Nutritional business turned in another quarter of strong operational growth. Animal Health grew 6% and Nutrition grew 8% over the same quarter in 2011. As you know, last week we announced an agreement to sell the Nutritional business to Nestle. We are pleased with the interest there was in this business and believe that Nestle with its presence, resources, and focus is a very good strategic fit for the Nutrition business. We expect the divestiture of Nutritional will be complete by the first half of 2013, assuming the receipt of the required regulatory clearances and satisfaction of other closing conditions.

As we have said in the past, we will use the proceeds in a way that creates the best after-tax value for our shareholders and we expect to allocate the after-tax proceeds to further share repurchases while also considering other value creating opportunities. With the return on share repurchases remaining the case to beat and a high hurdle. Our expense discipline and process improvement efforts continue to yield savings. Adjusted total costs were down 7% operationally from the first quarter of 2011 and we returned over $3.3 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in the first quarter.

Despite pricing pressures and global market uncertainty, the fundamentals of the business are strong and our strategy is positioning us well for the future. With the pending sale of the Nutrition business and after the potential separation of Animal Health, which at this time we expect would most likely be a public market transaction, our strategic imperatives remain the same. We are focused on building a sustainable research engine and allocating our capital in ways that create a competitive and flexible operating model that maximizes value for Pfizer and our shareholders.

I'm frequently asked, how do I see the Company's strategy evolving and what are the markets that will indicate if we are on track. As I've shared with you on prior calls, through our strategic imperatives we are building two strong cores, an innovative core and a value core. I see each of these as having distinct cost structures and operating drivers, and our consumer business can support the evolution and growth of either of these cores through its portfolio of strong brands.

A few words about the innovative core. It is intended to be a growth engine sustained by R&D investments that enable us to continue to build a robust late stage, mid stage, and pre-proof of concept pipeline, a pipeline of highly differentiated products that are focused on areas of unmet medical need that payers are willing to pay for. While we still have several products that will either lose exclusivity or will be approaching the end of their co-promotion periods over the next two to three years, I'm already seeing signs of positive momentum within the innovative core.

Our late stage pipeline has progressed well across multiple therapeutic areas as evidenced by the recent launches of INLYTA, XALKORI, Prevnar 13 for adults and the regulatory reviews that are under way for Eliquis, tofacitinib and Bosutinib. Over the next few years, we expect that these assets will likely form a foundation upon which we build and grow. And by prioritizing our investments and advancing the most promising new drug candidates, we now have a compliment of early to mid stage compounds that we hope will achieve proof of concept over the next two years and that will form the necessary late stage substrate of the future.

Turning to the value core. Its objective is to generate strong cash flow albeit with less growth. It includes post LOE products, certain products that are approaching LOE, and other established products targeted to broad populations. The value core requires a strong presence in high opportunity geographics, low costs go to market and manufacturing capabilities, and a broad base of product offerings. These are all capabilities we are building from our Emerging Markets footprint and other business development activities, such as the JVs and contract manufacturing agreements we have entered into. To support and evolve each of these cores, we will continue to work on our cost structure inclusive of everything from research and development, manufacturing, and go to market strategies while allocating capital in ways that maximize value for shareholders.

To sum up, I believe we have the right strategies for Pfizer that will guide us over the next several years. It will take a few years to fully determine our success in building the innovative and value cores. That said, as they each develop over time, I see them generating consistent and steady growth in earnings per share. Now we'll turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, EVP, CFO AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. Please note that starting in the second quarter of 2012, the Nutrition business will be presented as a discontinued operation and the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented on a retroactive basis. And as you know, discontinued operations are excluded from adjusted financial results. This means that for the full year of 2012, the results of the Nutritional business will be excluded from adjusted results. Now let's move on to the numbers.

First quarter 2012 revenues of $15.4 billion decreased 7% year-over-year, reflecting an operational decline of approximately 6% driven primarily by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies including primarily Lipitor in the US. Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.58 decreased approximately 3%, which primarily reflects the favorable impact of lower total adjusted costs resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives, to a lesser extent the impact of foreign exchange, which was more than offset by the loss of exclusivity of certain products.

Foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter revenues by less than 1%, or $57 million, and favorably impacted adjusted total cost by $163 million, or 2%. As a result, foreign exchange favorably impacted first quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01. We've included the next chart for the first time to better clarify the composition of biopharmaceutical revenues in Emerging Markets. In the first quarter of 2012, Emerging Market Biopharmaceutical revenue increased 6% to approximately $2.3 billion, reflecting operational growth of 9% and the negative impact of foreign exchange of 3%. Volume growth of 13% in Emerging Markets was partially offset by price reductions of 4%, resulting in the 9% operational growth.

Of the first quarter Emerging Markets Biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 42% was generated by Established Products, 32% by Specialty and Oncology products, and 26% by Primary Care products. Established product revenues generated by sales in Emerging Markets increased 9% operationally year-over-year, Specialty Care and Oncology revenues in Emerging Markets increased 12% operationally, and Primary Care revenues in Emerging Markets increased 7% operationally. With respect to the brick MT markets, first quarter biopharmaceutical revenues of almost $1.1 billion increased 10% operationally year-over-year and of these revenues approximately 44% was generated by Established Products, 29% by Specialty and Oncology products, and 27% by Primary Care products. Revenues for Established Products sold in brick MT markets increased 14% operationally year-over-year. Specialty Care and Oncology revenues in brick MT Markets grew 9% operationally and Primary Care revenues in brick MT markets grew 4% operationally.

We've also provided the next chart for the first time to better clarify the composition of biopharmaceutical revenues generated in the brick MT markets. During the first quarter volume growth of 15% in the brick MT markets was partially offset by price reductions of 5% resulting in operational growth of 10%. These markets contributed about 50% of the Emerging Market Biopharmaceutical operational growth versus the first quarter of 2011. We're updating our 2012 revenue guidance in certain elements of our 2012 adjusted financial guidance solely to reflect our agreement to sell the Nutritional business. Again starting in the second quarter of 2012, the Nutrition business will be presented as a discontinued operation and the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented on a retroactive basis, which means that for full year 2012, results of the Nutrition business will be excluded from adjusted results.

Now, most notably, we are decreasing revenue guidance to a range of $58 billion to $60 billion from a range of $60.5 billion to $62.5 billion, decreasing the adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue guidance to a range of 19.5% to 20.5% from a previous range of 20.5% to 21.5%, decreasing the adjusted SIA expense range to $16.3 billion to $17.3 billion, and decreasing our adjusted diluted EPS guidance to a range of $2.14 to $2.24 from a range of $2.20 to $2.30. In addition, we are decreasing our reported diluted EPS guidance to a range of $1.23 to [$1.38] (corrected by company after the call) from a range of $1.37 to $1.52 primarily reflecting additional expenses related to certain legal matters and certain asset impairment charges.

Our first quarter results reflect our continued solid operational performance, despite the negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in various geographies, mainly Lipitor in the US. Again, we are updating our 2012 revenue guidance and adjusted financial guidance solely to reflect our agreement to sell our Nutrition business to Nestle. Following the completion of the transaction, and after we receive the proceeds, which we believe will be in the first half of 2013, we expect to make additional repurchases of our common stock with the after-tax proceeds with share repurchases continuing to remain the case to beat. We expect this to be accretive to our net results in 2013 and beyond. We remain on track to announce a strategic alternative for our Animal Health business in 2012 and continue to expect any separation of this business to occur between July of 2012 and July of 2013. As always, our decision will be based on the option that generates the greatest after-tax return for our shareholders.

We remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2012 and beyond with approximately $2.3 billion, or $104.6 million shares repurchased to date in 2012. And we continue to expect to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock in 2012. With that, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank, and Operator, please if we can now poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Actually I have two questions. I wanted to ask you about your comments on share repurchase. I know you guys always talk about share repurchase is the case to beat and I think that we obviously have a lot of subjectivity in thinking about that in terms of what your stock price is now and where it will be and when that changes. But is it fair to think about it from an earnings yield perspective when you think about consensus numbers divided by your share price, you're yielding 10%. And that seems like a pretty high number to beat and actually even $1 or $2 up from here same deal, so is that a fair way of thinking about it and then my more granular question is on tofa.

Could you just comment on where the ORAL Start study is in regards to interim analysis reading this out year, if FDA has that in terms of its review and the same thing with ORAL scan? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Catherine. Yes. I'll ask Frank to comment on the way you look at share repurchases, but I'd just like to once again emphasize that we remain committed to discipline and capital allocation and we do see our shares as being a good investment and a high hurdle to beat. And we remain committed to looking for opportunities, sort of bolt on acquisitions that would produce growth, but they always have to be what we believe is the high hurdle of our share repurchase.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So Catherine, I think the way I'd answer the question is we don't look at any individual metric. We look at several metrics. At a macro level we always start with at prevailing market conditions and therefore our prevailing market stock prices. Do we believe that buying back our shares represents an attractive investment opportunity and a prudent use of capital? And the short answer is we do, so we start there. Then we look at a few other metrics, one of which is the one you mentioned in terms of an EPS number on top of the stock price and the return you get. And then by the way, that's an after-tax return that needs to be trued up to a pre-tax number, which gets you to the high hurdle comment that Ian made earlier on the phone call. So that is one of the other metrics that we do look at when we analyze the return on share buybacks.

IAN READ: And Geno, if you want thank you and will you answer the tofa question?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT & GM, SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC.: Yes, Catherine, for the tofa trials, the ORAL Scan trial, the one-year read out was included in the dossier that went to the FDA so they have the data, the one-year data. The two-year data will read out a little bit later this year, and whether we submit that data to the FDA or not prior to an action will depend on ongoing discussions with the agency. In terms of the monotherapy trial, that also, the one-year data will read out around middle of this year as well and that has not obviously been submitted as part of the dossier, since it hasn't read out yet. And so those data will be available as we progress through the rest of the year.

CHUCK TRIANO: All right. Thanks, Geno. Operator, next question, please?

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just to follow-up on Catherine's questions, Ian I don't mean to put words in your mouth but do you see any other acquisition out there that is more attractive right now than buying back your stock? And then Frank, maybe if you can talk about the proceeds from the Nutritionals business, as I understand are mostly outside the US, and what can you do to minimize the tax burden when you take that cash back from overseas to the US? And then lastly, Geno, if you could just frame for us the issues going into the panel on Wednesday for tofacitinib and just generally, how you're feeling about the potential outcome? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Jami. So I think we've said many times that as we look at opportunities, especially in smaller bolt on opportunities where we could acquire an asset that we could organically grow, we would be interested in that because we do want to look at growth assets. I certainly don't -- I look at them as bolt on, and I don't as I sit here today don't see any of those type of activities. And certainly, I would say well never saying never, I certainly don't see any opportunity in larger scale acquisitions that would be a prudent use of our capital. Frank, do you want to add to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, so let me hit the question on the Nutri proceeds, Jami. Let me just start at a high level and then I'll drill down a little bit. So first we're pleased with our recent announcement to sell the Nutri business to Nestle and we look forward to working with Nestle to get that transaction completed by about the first half of 2013. In terms of the proceeds, in my mind, nothing has changed. We are all about working to continue to minimize, to maximize the after-tax return to our shareholders.

In terms of the use of the proceeds, nothing has changed. Share buybacks remain the case to beat. And then specifically now to your question, when we do receive those proceeds initially, most of those proceeds will be domiciled outside the US because our Nutri business was a non-US business. And then in terms of what is our objective, our objective is to minimize the tax burden involved in those proceeds as we maximize the share repurchases from those proceeds. And that's literally what we're working our way through as we go.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. Geno.

GENO GERMANO: Okay. Jami, this is Geno. So let me make some comments about tofa. I think with regard to our expectations for the advisory committee and the issues, it's basically all about benefit risk. And I think there will be a thorough discussion of both and we feel that our data package is strong with regard to characterizing both the benefits and the risks associated with this medicine. On the efficacy side, we've done five large pivotal trials. We have a database of over 4800 patients. We've shown consistent efficacy in signs and symptoms and function and remission.

We have structure data in the ORAL Scan study and importantly, we have strong patient reported outcomes data that showed patients actually function better and they feel better actually on the therapy. So on the benefit side, we think the benefits are really well characterized. On the risk side, you know this is a new mechanism of action so there will be lots of interest and understanding the profile thoroughly. The good news is that what we've seen in our clinical trials with regard to adverse events and safety issues are predictable based on the mechanism of action. You can almost anticipate what might be the case.

What we've seen in the safety profile is that it is predictable, the safety events are familiar to rheumatologists, they are manageable in most cases and we think that after a thorough and robust discussion, the advisory committee will have the data to conclude that the benefit risk is positive at both the 5 milligram and 10 milligram dose, which is what we've concluded. We think the fact that this is the first oral DMARD in over 10 years and given the high unmet medical need for patients with RA that the committee will be favorable and the discussions will be robust.

CHUCK TRIANO: All right. Thanks, Geno. Next question please, Operator?

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: A couple of questions. The first question is a longer term question on your restructuring. While selling off Nutritionals and spinning out Animal Health may benefit shareholders, it's not apparent exactly how it really benefits the Parent Company, because these are growth year assets that you're getting rid of, so it's clear how shareholders would benefit in the short-term. But I'm hoping you can describe in what ways the Parent Company benefits over the longer run if growth in the pharma business ends up being lower as a result of the restructuring.

And then the second question is again on tofacitinib. Once FDA makes its final decision on the application, will you be disappointed if you don't get both doses of the drug approved? And if you don't get a DMARD failure label versus only getting a third-line TNF failure-only label?

IAN READ: Okay. Thanks, Tim. So look, I'm not quite sure I totally agree with your hypothesis there with the disposition or the monetization of Nutrient and Animal Health. I think you were unlocking value for shareholders and hence when unlocking value for Pfizer, it's a good use of capital. It's an appropriate use of capital allocation And in the end, the business rests on our ability to have an innovative core and a value core. That's where the vast majority of our business is. That's where our growth will come from. That's where our cash flow will come from. So unlocking the value of these two businesses to me seems to be in the shareholders interest and in Pfizer's interest. With that, I'd pass it over to Geno.

GENO GERMANO: Okay. So with regard to potential outcomes, on the doses, we believe that we've demonstrated that both the 5 milligram and the 10 milligram dose independently have a positive benefit risk and should be approved and should be made available to practicing physicians. We know that rheumatologists would like to have the ability to tailor therapy to meet the individual needs of their patients and their preference would be to have both doses available. And so we will support the registration of both doses and hopefully that will occur.

If not, we really don't see it as a major deterrent to the use of the medicine or the potential for tofacitinib to help patients in need of a different alternative to what's available today. With regard to the positioning of post DMARD or post TNF, it's likely that the initial utilization of the medicine will be in a post TNF patient population. That's where the greatest unmet need exists today, so it's almost regardless of what the labeling is. We think that the evolution of the use of the medicine will start in the post TNF space and as experience accumulates and as additional data are generated, we would see the labeling and the use of the medicine evolve to a pre TNF and possibly a pre methotrexate position in the long run.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno. Operator next question, please?

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: First question is how you're thinking about the longer term dividend here. You've commented a goal getting back to an industry payout by the end of '13, but given the highly diversified business you're going to have, particularly post-Lipitor, why not think about even a higher payout over time? And I guess, how are you thinking over time about again a higher dividend versus share repo?

And then my second question was on the bapineuzumab. What should we just be expecting here? Is it something that we are going to wait for a conference to get data or should we anticipate a press release from Pfizer when top line results are available? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. So I think Chris, we've been recently aggressive in increasing the dividend over the last three years. We're aware of how important it is in total shareholder return. We constantly monitor that. We've said up to this date that a 40% payout ratio would be appropriate, but you know, we will look at that every year. And the tax right now, the tax is equivalent tax treatment between buyback and dividends, so there's no arbitrage there for shareholders. So we will look at it on a regular basis. We'll look at what the fiscal situation is and I think we'll make the most prudent decisions for our shareholders. Frank, do you want to add anything?

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think I'd just add to it that the way we think about this Chris is the word I'll use is an and, and not a or. What I mean by that is if you look at what we've been doing the last couple years, we've been doing buybacks and a dividend. So last year for example, we returned to shareholders over $15 billion, $9 billion in buybacks, over $6 billion in dividends. This year with our goal of approximately $5 billion in buybacks, we'll return over $11 billion directly to our shareholders. So in the last two years, between what we've done and what we plan on doing, that will be over $26 billion in capital returned directly to our shareholders.

So that's why I say an and, not an or. And over time, clearly our objective is to generate steady consistent earnings growth with our approximately 40% target in terms of payout. As earnings would grow, the dividend would continue to grow, so that's what we're all about doing.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. Olivier, would you like to take the question on bapineuzumab?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, PRESIDENT & GM, PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC.: Yes, Chris. So Study 302 as you know is ApoE4 carriers is now completed and the database is being locked down and the other studies of 301 for the APOE4 non-carrier will be actually completed later during the summer. So currently, we plan to issue a press release to include the top line results of both studies, carriers and non-carriers, because as an alliance we believe that we will best understand the results in the context of both populations.

So, we plan to issue the release as soon as possible after the availability of the top line results of the 301, and we anticipate that to be during the third quarter of this year. And after that, in line with the standard practices we have within the alliance, we intend to present the full results at scientific medical conference during the second half of the year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Olivier. And if we can move to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: First, on crizotinib, can you give us an update, maybe how many patients are on therapy and what's happening behind the scenes there? Second, any major inventory changes for the products just from the end of the year to the end of the quarter? And then third on tofa, in the panel the big concern is not what does the data look like and the adverse events, we've all seen the data. It's much more of a concern of how the FDA sometimes c an re-cut data and look at things a little differently and I was curious if you can give us any sense of if they've done any of that in your conversations with them so far, if it looks like the data is pretty straightforward as we've all seen it.

IAN READ: Thank you, Marc. So could we, Geno, could you answer the crizotinib and tofa question and then we'll pass it over to Frank to do the inventories.

GENO GERMANO: So with crizotinib, I think the best way to characterize it is that continued progress, we have about 1000 patients that have been prescribed XALKORI so far. Again, we're making really good progress. We're seeing a consistent accumulation of new patients, and as you know, the molecular testing is really the key. We've see molecular testing increase from about 10% when we launched to about 45%. It's actually a little bit ahead of where our projections were. There are some issues with the length of time it takes for those tests to complete and information get back to physicians so we continue to work with the oncology community and hospitals to improve the efficiency of the testing process. But at this point, I'd say we're encouraged by what we see and we think that with the duration of therapy starting to accumulate for new patients, we'll see the business continue to build.

And with regard to tofa and the FDA's views, I mean as you say, they often run their own analyses and look at the data in various ways and at the end of the week, they will be making public their briefing documents for the advisory committee and you'll see how they've looked at things. There's nothing they've done that's been shocking or concerning to us. We've had some dialogue with them about a number of items, but I really can't think of anything to highlight at this point.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno. Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then on the inventory, Marc, I think the short answer would be really no changes. If you look at the weeks on hand for Q1 of 2012, 2.7 weeks on hand. For Q1 of 2011, 2.7 weeks on hand. And then you ask me about the end of the year. The end of the year was 2.8 weeks on hand, so really not any real change at all if you look over the various periods.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of America.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I have two for Ian. First, a strategic one. Despite some observers predictions or suggestions that you spin or sell the generic division, I can see why you'd keep that business as different parts of pharma converge rather than diverge over time, but my question is what can you do to enhance that business and treat it more as an offensive and defensive business? Or, do you think you already have the right assets and culture in place there? And my second question, Ian, is that you sounded pretty excited at the annual shareholder meeting last week about the CDK4/6 Inhibitor, so if you or one of your colleagues could comment on that with a little more color and some timeliness that would be great. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Gregg. Well look, I try to be clear in the opening remarks that I do see the business, the totality of the business in two cores; one being an innovative core and the other being a value core, which is where your question is going to on the spinoff sale. I think they are both great businesses.

I do think both of them have different drivers for their success, so I think certainly we want to move as we get through the Nutrition and Animal Health situation, we want to move to more distinct business cultures for those two businesses, so the managers have a clearer focus on what they're expected to do and how they are expected to do it and how we structure. And as we do that, I think it will allow us to view those businesses and make the appropriate capital allocation decisions on those businesses. So I hope that answers your question and with that I'll hand it over to Mikael to talk about CDK4/6.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Thank you for the interest in our next wave of pipeline assets, and I think the CDK4/6 drug which we are in the lead in the industry as we were with the XALKORI, it's another statement to our strength in designing highly targeted treatment for kinases in oncology. We have the CDK4/6 tested in breast cancer, ER-positive breast cancer, and we have been very encouraged of the data we have seen. And you will see May in a breast cancer conference in Brussels, investigators sharing the data. We also see CDK4/6 as an opportunity as we have learned more about the molecular changes in tumors that may predict response going into additional solid tumors. Although we see breast cancer currently as the main near term opportunity and we will share Ian's enthusiasm about that drug and for an opportunity for patients suffering from breast cancer.

IAN READ: Thank you. Just, Gregg, just a follow-up a little on my comments. On the value core, you asked a question about acquisitions. You know, we see acquisitions and joint ventures and agreements on supplies being vital to that business and we're very focused on that. We had done a deal in Brazil to secure supply there, which we did last year, and we have just signed a joint venture, or a memorandum of understanding for joint venture, in China with Hisun, which will be important to us. We continue to look at ways of adding substrate through partnerships and supply agreements, and I think that's a typical example of activities that that core business will be looking at that is distinct from how an innovative core would be looking at what type of activities they do.

We see the in in that that emerging market business as being far more susceptible to local acquisitions and local deals. We don't, I don't see it as being a global solution. These markets are very separate and very different, whereas perhaps in the innovative core you'd look more for a global type deal to meet those needs. So that's really how we're looking at that area and in certain countries, we find the bar too high. Like if you look at India, it's a very expensive market right now and we're unlikely to be interested acquiring assets of that value, so hope that gives you enough color.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian, and we'll move to the next question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Mark Schoenebaum, ISI Group.

MARK SCHOENEBAUM, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Maybe a capital allocation question and then a couple general ones. On the capital allocation, if you guys know that you are going to get the proceeds from Nutritionals next year, has there been any thought putting -- why not bring forward an increased authorization and perhaps accelerate some of the repurchases now? I mean it looks like you guys could probably borrow for one to two years at very low rates. So just curious if you're thinking about that.

Number two on the Emerging Markets, how as analysts and investors should we be thinking about pricing in the Emerging Markets over the long term? Should we be modeling 4% or 5% price erosion year on year kind of forever, or should we be thinking about something different? And if you could give any color specifically on what is happening in China that would be very helpful, because I know it's a big part of your business. Thanks a lot.

IAN READ: Thank you. I'll ask Frank to account to the uses of cash and then I'll ask David to comment on the secular trend in the Emerging Markets, both on volume and pricing and wealth.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on the share repurchases and accelerating the purchases by leveraging up, I'll give you a couple answers to this. I think first as I mentioned before, without leveraging up, I think we've been very aggressive. You know, $15 billion last year as I mentioned before, $11 billion planned for this year, so quite frankly I think we get the benefits of being aggressive in this area without leveraging up the balance sheet, and so from my perspective we'll continue down that path. We said $5 billion or so this year, approximately $5 billion. That's the path we're on. We talked about another $5 billion with the remaining $10 billion authorization. Remember, Animal Health and Nutri are separate and distinct from that $5 billion this year and that $5 billion in 2013 and beyond. Quite frankly we think that is aggressive and we're doing that without having to lever up the balance sheet.

IAN READ: Olivier. I'm sorry. David.

DAVID SIMMONS, PRESIDENT & GM, EMERGING MARKETS AND ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER INC.: Before tackling your specific pricing question, let me give you a frame on this for Emerging Markets and the reason we're optimistic for potential growth in the future. There's three large trends going on in Emerging Markets, the population masses are expanding at a pretty significant rate. The per capita wealth is increasing at a pretty significant rate and country by country, healthcare spending as a percentage of GDP is low when compared to OECD averages, much less what we see in Western Europe or the US. So all this mean that there should be more healthcare spending going on. Now against that is specifically to your pricing question, there -- we do expect that there will be price pressure in the future and a continual basis. Now the issue with your question on how to model it.

There's kind of a wild card in this is in that you don't have a steady rhythm of price erosion. You tend to have these step function events where you can have a market turn into a pretty significant price decrease that could be in excess of 10%, but that's against a back drop of other countries that aren't doing much price cutting at all. Last year if you'll remember, we had a price erosion of 5% against volume growth of 10%, so we netted out at 5% growth. That was a pretty large price erosion impact for us from a historic basis. We expect a little bit more moderate price erosion this year and moving forward as we target high single-digit growth.

IAN READ: Thank you, David.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Dr. Dolsten, you commented on CDK4/6, but I'd love for you to spend just a minute if you could on other assets that we should look forward to at ASCO given you do have an analyst meeting there. Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Mikael.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: You refer particularly to the oncology area, so the next wave of oncology drugs, on the antibody targeted conjugates we are very encouraged by Inotuzumab. We are in phase three for lymphoma and also we'll share more data on leukemia, on B-cell leukemia. We are making progress with that crizotinib for non-small cell lung cancer, a drug that has shown very encouraging data in phase two versus Tarceva. In addition to CDK4/6 that I commented on breast cancer, I could add there that CDK4/6 has shown a very nice tolerability profile, which I think also is something that can open up a very large opportunity in women with estrogen-receptive breast cancer adding on a combination on top of hormone blockade.

Beyond that, we have two very interesting [PS3K]-mTor drugs that we have in several phase one B studies and are now entering phase two studies for solid tumors. And we also have a small hedgehog drug for particular hematological malignancies. So I think you can see that beyond assets, the three assets that we have been in registration alone, XALKORI, INLYTA and also Bosutinib, there is now a next wave of oncology drugs and you'll hear more of them as we share data at scientific conferences.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the results. First question for Frank on optimization of the supply chain. Can you just remind us how many facilities you had when you merged with Wyeth, where you've taken that to, and how much more improvement there is on that side and how that might shape gross margins going forward? Question on Eliquis, second question has to do with Coumadin and the stickiness of Coumadin, if you take what you anticipate would be your mock label with some of the claims that you have, how much less sticky do you think Coumadin becomes from the profile of Eliquis? And then third question on your IV generics business, that on a global basis is about a $12 billion market. You have about a 7% share or close to $1 billion dollars, a lot of companies have had manufacturing issues there. How's that business performing and is that an important area for growth going forward? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, John. So we'll ask Frank to give you a reply on the rationalization of the supply chain, Olivier will do Eliquis, and then David can do the sterile injectable question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So John, on the supply chain question. When we announced our plan network strategy, when we finished up with that after the King acquisition, we said we would cease operations in 10 manufacturing facilities over the next several years with those facilities being in the UK, Ireland, and Puerto Rico. So from where we are, we have plans to reduce by another 10 facilities. That would be point one. In terms of what we're doing to manage the cost structure, I think the way I think about it from a supply chain perspective is there's really four big buckets that we go after.

The first one is I'll call it the overall network, which is the plan network strategy that I just alluded to in terms of the number of plants, where they are, that would be one. Second bucket would be optimizing each individual plant. So getting each individual plant to run as efficiently as optimally as possible and we use lean manufacturing processes, multiple continuous improvement projects to get after that. The third one is procurement. Procurement is a major element of manufacturing costs, so what we can do to continue to do better and better in the area of procurement. And the last area would be what I call center cost, kind of the center cost that's needed to manage all of the supply chain. So those are the four buckets that we aggressively manage to continue to drive cost and manage that cost in our margins as best as we can.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. Olivier.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: John, about the stickiness, we are, let me start by saying that we are planning for launching Eliquis during the summer and we are fully prepared to do that. The first thing I believe is the fact that Eliquis is very strongly differentiated from Warfarin. That's number one. And you know why, because it has demonstrated superior efficacy, superior bleeding outcomes, and overall mortality advantage compared to Warfarin. So that positions us we believe very strongly against Warfarin, and positions us also well to compete in the NOAC class. So we expect that to be very compelling for cardiologists and primary care physician, and then in the first four to six weeks after the approval, we will be focusing on establishing access and reimbursement, which is so critical.

We believe there we have a very strong value proposition for payers and we will also be preparing our sales force and medical teams in the field. We also we believe leveraging the very strong expertise of both Companies. As you know, the bulk of prescription initially will be driven by cardiologists and mainly in hospital, about 50% of the initiations are made in hospital and there we will leverage the MS expertise and relationship with cardiologists before PCPs will take over. And then and there as you know, we have considerable expertise and experience with PCP and integrated health system.

So we think we are going to compete initially for new patient starts. That's how we are planning the beginning of the launch and patients were no longer well controlled on Warfarin. And then over time, subgroups will actually be targeted and especially the one on aspirin or switches from patient who are well controlled on Warfarin. So just talking about the stickiness, if you look at data and market data, about 20% of newly diagnosed patients are placed on a new oral anticoagulant, or were in the past three months, and I think physicians are estimating to put 30% of their new patients on those medicines. So we are very optimistic for the beginning of the launch.

IAN READ: Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then John, I just want to -- even though you didn't ask me this, I thought I'd add one thing to my supply chain answer, which is we're acutely and very much focused on cost management. But please know, we are equally focused and just as acutely focused on quality and service performance. All three of those are equally important. They are critical and we focus on all three in a critical way.

IAN READ: Thank you. David.

DAVID SIMMONS: John, related to your question on hospital-based sterile injectables, since 2008 we've been interested in this area and making efforts against our strategy in this area. The reason of interest is primarily because the competitive intensity is lower in this segment of the generics market and that's driven by the precision and technical difficulty of manufacturing quality standards and holding those standards. If anything in the last three years that competitive intensity has even gotten less, because we've had more and more competitors fail to rise to the level of scrutiny that the FDA is rightly applying.

Now our strategy against this area is to broaden the portfolio and introduce a few new technology platforms like refill syringes and bag technologies. The portfolio expansion that we're doing comes from two areas, one, well three areas. One, we have a pretty significant basket of legacy products from Pfizer and its acquired Companies, pharmacy in particular, Wyeth and Warner-Lambert. Adding to that, we are developing non-Pfizer legacy products in two manufacturing facilities that have specific technical capabilities. It's Kalamazoo, Michigan and Perth, Australia.

Beyond that we have a partnership with Strides in India, who is providing us with oncology and anti-infective products. In fact we've been launching products, we have a large format, vancomycin entry, that's taking significant share in the US. So everything you're seeing in the market is valid and then it's an area that Pfizer is poised to compete well and be a leader in due to our manufacturing quality standards.

IAN READ: Thank you, David.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, David. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have one question on tofa and then a few on bapineuzumab. So on tofa, you're expecting a favorable committee. Can you just talk a little bit about the REMS that you're proposing including monthly blood testing requirements? And then changing gears to bapineuzumab. In the press release, it indicated data mid-year and you're expecting to issue a press release in the third quarter. My first question on bapi is should we assume that the data will thus not be at the Alzheimer's Conference in Vancouver in the third week of July?

And then second, with respect to the data, there has been some discussion by your partners about adding and pre-specifying additional endpoints, but I'm hoping that Pfizer can clarify that since Pfizer owns half of bapineuzumab so that we understand the analyses that you're going to be running when you look at the phase three data. And then finally, your partners have also discussed a new phase three trial that's being started and once again there I thought it would be best for Pfizer to discuss it since Pfizer owns half of the compound.

Could you just walk us through this new subcutaneous trial in early stage Alzheimer's patients? And with respect to that trial that you're running the new phase three trial, some bulls would interpret that to mean that Pfizer has seen positive data. A bear would say what Company starts phase three months before phase three is supposed to report out. So if you could provide some color on the new phase three trial that would be helpful. Thank you.

IAN READ: David, thank you for those questions. So we need to get to tofa first, I believe.

GENO GERMANO: Yes. That's an easy one. So David, the -- our expectation and our recommendation in the REMS for patient monitoring is actually very consistent with the monitoring that you would -- that's currently proposed and in place -- in practice for patients that are on biologic DMARD methotrexate combinations. So it will be very similar to what's in practice today.

IAN READ: And then Olivier, I think the bapi was into three parts. One, do we expect to be at a conference in the third week of July, the -- some commentary on adding additional endpoints, and the third question was why we started a new phase thee trial.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Right. So on the first one, the answer is no; however, as I mentioned earlier during the call, we are planning to present the data at one other conference, but it's still not determined during the second half, and there are a couple which will be available during the second half of the year. So that's the first question. The second question to be honest, I'm not entirely sure what are those additional endpoints you are referring to.

The endpoints are very, very clear in all phase three programs, both in terms of efficacy and safety, so I'm not entirely sure what again you are referring to there, and I can get back to you on that one when it's clarified. And the third one, yes we are discussing within the alliance the possibility of a sub Q study in prodromal AD; however, the decision is not made, and as you rightfully suggested, the decision will be made on the basis of the strength of the data of the current phase three program and the two first studies.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Olivier. Helpful. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I have three questions. First on Eliquis, do you believe 3% to 5% share of the oral anti-coagulant market exiting 2012 is completely unattainable? Secondly, the decline in alliance revenue ex-US is a bit puzzling because at least to my knowledge, Pfizer's SPIRIVA participation has ended in only a few small markets with participation in larger markets ending in June. So what is the reason for the decline? And then thirdly, what was the rationale for exiting the Biocon deal for generic Lantus back in March. Thank you.

IAN READ: So Olivier, if you could deal with the expectations on exit market shares at the end of 2012. I don't believe we predict or give out projected market shares.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: No. No, we don't.

IAN READ: But if you could make some qualitative comments about how we expect to go to market. And then the declines for Spiriva ex-US, I think that question was on that. And then Biocon if David could talk to that.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: So on the first one, Steve, as Ian has mentioned, we're not giving out forecasts as you know, but we are planning again to be very successful and aggressive during the second half of this year. So that would probably be a good target. And again, we are going after cardiologists first who are responsible for a large piece of the prescriptions, a large volume of the prescriptions initially, and we have terrific access and relationship with cardiologists in hospitals thanks to BMS. And again, the renewal of those prescription would be made through the dialogue with our Primary Care sales force.

So that's number one. Number two, Spiriva has a contract for Spiriva in the US. It is reaching year 10, only in 2014, by mid-2014, so is that -- I think answers your question. And the third one, Ian?

IAN READ: Biocon, regarding on David.

DAVID SIMMONS: Yes. Related to Biocon, and then the framework of capital allocation. When we made the deal, we made a set of assumptions that primarily revolved around the US market, which was the most attractive part of the estimates for that market opportunity. As we progressed the partnership, looking at the competitive landscape, looking at progress and understanding regulatory requirements on these types of products, we took an assessment that the amount of investment on a go forward basis and the use of that investment versus other potential uses of that capital that we made the decision to go with other uses of the capital rather than continue with the partnership.

IAN READ: Thank you, David.

CHUCK TRIANO: Today, I think we have time for one last question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Just quickly, maybe strategically you guys can help us think about, and again I guess it's more strategic pricing and marketing, as we think about access for tofacitinib, global pricing, should we be thinking about this as kind of a globally priced product? Should we be thinking about it as having differentials in different markets? And do you see value in coming in with a reduced price potentially to potentially gain market share despite Geno, your comments that the use will probably be in the anti-TNF refractory space? And then similarly on Eliquis, even though you guys have demonstrated superiority over Warfarin, how will price versus access in the context of again the uptake and really breaking through this barrier of inertia, how much does that weigh into your views versus marketing and the data itself? Thanks.

IAN READ: You know, these are very good questions and go centrally to competitive situations that we don't really want to get into before launching, Seamus. I would say that we clearly need to position the price based on the value we see of the product and where its positioned. And pricing is an important part of the launch platform and we will do that with research and we will do it carefully. I really don't want to say anymore around pricing until those final decisions are taken and until we understand where the label is and then where the positioning is and the same with Eliquis. I don't really want to get into pricing at this stage just before the launch, but thank you for the question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Ian, and thank you everybody for joining us this morning.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Thanks for your time, everybody.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the Pfizer's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ahp : Wyeth Ltd | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120515e851003bj
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,091 words
   PD
31 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP - IR, PFIZER INC.: Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth quarter 2011 performance. I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read, Frank D'Amelio, our CFO, Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Primary Care, Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development, Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology, Amy Schulman, General Counsel, President and General Manager of Pfizer Nutrition, and David Simmons, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link, Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Fourth Quarter 2011, located in the Investor Presentation section in the lower right corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like for remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, January 31, 2012. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, PRESIDENT AND CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck, and good morning, everyone. During my remarks this morning, I will briefly recap some highlights from the fourth quarter and for the year, and I will talk about what we are focusing on for 2012. We finished 2011 with a solid fourth quarter and the overall financial performance for the year was strong. Looking at the quarter, loss of exclusivity continued to impact our business. This quarter, we absorbed nearly $1.3 billion revenue decline due to loss of exclusivity across our biopharmaceutical commercial units. We saw strong operational growth in key markets, such as Japan and China. Revenues in the emerging market business overall declined 2% operationally, due to pricing pressures and exceptional items that Frank will review in more detail.

As we have said before, the opportunity in emerging markets remains attractive, although quarter to quarter performance is volatile. I believe the best measure of our business in these markets is the yearly performance, which I will speak to in a moment. Animal Health, Nutrition and Consumer all turned in strong quarters operationally. Animal Health grew 13%, Nutrition grew 20%, and Consumer grew 8% over the same quarter in 2010 and we saw the benefits of our process improvements and cost reduction work this quarter. Adjusted total costs were down 5% operationally. Turning now to highlights for the year, we met or exceeded every aspect of our financial guidance. We reduced our adjusted R&D spend by nearly $1 billion dollars compared to 2010, but we also took significant actions to strengthen our innovative core, which included narrowing our therapeutic areas of focus, sharpening our analytical tools to better prioritize investment and stop funding low potential programs earlier in the R&D cycle, advancing the most promising compounds in our pipeline and continuing to invest in R&D network and the capability design to drive biomedical innovation.

During the year, the Emerging Markets business was affected by strong headwinds, such as increased pricing pressure in China and Turkey, the loss of exclusivity of Lipitor in Brazil and Mexico in 2010, and devaluation of Venezuela. That being said, revenue in Emerging Markets grew 5% operationally in 2011, comprised of 10% volume growth and a 5% decline in price. Performance was particularly strong in key markets where we increased our investment, such as China, which delivered 18% operational revenue growth, and Turkey, which delivered 70% operational growth for 2011. We grew revenues from key assets in our branded portfolio, including Prevnar 13, Lyrica, Enbrel and Sutent. We absorbed approximately $5 million in LOE and operationally only saw a slight decline in our revenues year over year.

We moved quickly to complete a strategic review of the businesses, which resulted in the ongoing exploration of strategic alternatives for the Animal Health and Nutrition business. We saw a steady cadence of progress in our late-stage pipeline and the emergence of a promising mix of early to mid-stage assets and we returned over $15 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. I would characterize 2011 as a year of committing the Company to being a focused, innovative biopharmaceutical company positioned to deliver value for shareholders. We've set a course to redefine and strengthen Pfizer. We concentrated on two key priorities -- improving the performance of our innovative core and making the right capital allocation decisions and I believe we delivered on both of these goals.

Turning to this year, our focus is unchanged. We remain intent on continuing to take the actions that will create shareholder value and like we did in 2011, we will continue to do so in two primary ways -- getting our innovative core more productive and sustainable and keeping our allocation priorities aligned with the best interests of shareholders. The way we will do this is by maximizing the value of our inline portfolio, including key inline assets such as Lyrica, Enbrel, Prevnar and Celebrex, successfully launching Inlyta and Prevnar 13 for adult 50 years and older, advancing the regulatory filing for Eliquis and tofacitinib and advancing the next wave of compounds in our pipeline, including new molecular entities that are showing promise and that we hope will achieve proof of concepts over the next two years. I believe the recent approval of Inlyta, as well as the early performance of Xalkori in the US, demonstrates how well our oncology business is evolving.

Regarding Prevnar 13 adult, the ACIP Pneumococcal Working Group plans to discuss the use of Prevnar 13 in adults with the ACIP Committee at the upcoming meeting in February. Although a vote on recommendation of the use is not currently scheduled, we are in discussions with the CDC to obtain guidance about use of Prevnar 13 and we'll launch the adult indication in the US in March. The rate of uptake will depend in large part on the ACIP recommendation of use. Also in 2012, we continue to strengthen our Emerging Markets business and maintain a leadership role as we seek growth over time in key markets like China, Brazil, Russia, India, Turkey, and Mexico. We will keep examining our cost structure, including all aspects of our SI&A, our go-to-market expenses, and manufacturing, so that we can maintain a lower and flexible cost base that allows us to respond to pricing pressures and additional LOEs over the coming years. We are on track for determining the strategic alternatives and next steps for the potential separation of our Animal Health and Nutrition business. We still plan to announce our strategic decision for each business in 2012.

We will continue to return capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We remain committed to meeting a target dividend payout of approximately 40% by the end of 2013. Further, our Board recently approved a new $10 billion share repurchase program and we've stated our intent to purchase approximately $5 billion during this year. This amount does not include any repurchases that could result from actions taken related to our Nutrition and Animal Health business. To sum up, in 2012, we will stay the course. We will work to maintain the momentum we created in 2011.

Longer-term, after we potentially complete the separation of Animal Health and Nutrition, Pfizer will be a Company that has two primary businesses with distinct costs structures and operating approaches. The first will be a growth business of pharmaceuticals that we expect to generate profitable revenue growth with strong cash flow and that has a sustainable innovation engine that will be evident through advances in our pipeline. The second will look more like a value business that is also expected to generate strong cash flow and will be represented by established or post-LOE products. We see Consumer Products fitting nicely into either of these businesses. I see these businesses generating consistent and steady growth in earnings per share over time. Now, I will turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter and our 2012 financial guidance.

FRANK D'AMELIO, EVP, CFO AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. Now, let's move on to the results. Fourth quarter 2011 revenues of $16.7 billion decreased 4% year over year, reflecting the continued impact of LOEs of approximately $1.3 billion, or 7%, and the unfavorable impact of US healthcare reform of $106 million, or 1%, which were partially offset by the positive impact of foreign exchange of $157 million, or approximately 1%, the addition of King products, which favorably impacted revenues by $340 million, or 3%, and growth in certain inline products. Reported net income of $1.4 billion and reported diluted EPS of $0.19 were negatively impacted by the impact of LOEs, the non-recurrence of a one-time tax benefit recorded in 2010, and higher charges associated with our cost reduction and productivity initiatives, which were partially offset by lower acquisition-related costs and the non-recurrence of certain litigation charges recorded in 2010.

Fourth quarter 2011 adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 20.1% versus 21.1% in the year-ago quarter, due primarily to the positive impact of foreign exchange and our cost reductions and productivity initiatives, which were partially offset by the addition of legacy King operations, the Puerto Rico excise tax and a shift in geographic and business mix. Adjusted total cost decreased 9%, reflecting the positive impact of foreign exchange. Excluding foreign exchange, adjusted total cost decreased 5% operationally, which also reflects the positive impact of our ongoing cost reduction and productivity initiatives, particularly in the R&D organization, and the negative impact of the addition of costs from legacy King operations, the US healthcare reform fee, and the Puerto Rico excise tax. Adjusted income of $3.9 billion increased 3% year over year, driven by lower adjusted total costs and foreign exchange, which were partially offset by the impact of LOEs and a higher effective tax rate in the fourth quarter. Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.50 increased 6%, which included a $0.02 benefit from share repurchases, as well as the positive items I just mentioned. Foreign exchange positively impacted fourth quarter revenues by $157 million, or 1%, and lowered adjusted total costs by $481 million, or 4%. As a result, foreign exchange favorably impacted fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.06.

As I mentioned earlier, this quarter, we continued to absorb revenue declines as a result of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies. The fourth quarter negative impact of LOEs was approximately $1.3 billion. The full-year negative impact was approximately $5 billion. This quarter, the impact of LOEs was partially offset by the addition of King products, growth in our Animal Health, Nutrition and Consumer Healthcare businesses, the positive impact of foreign exchange and growth of certain inline pharmaceutical products, including Lyrica, Enbrel, Celebrex and Sutent, Prevnar 7 in Japan, and Prevnar 13, Norvasc and Viagra in emerging markets with overall double-digit growth in China. Fourth quarter revenues generated from both our Biopharmaceutical and our other businesses in Emerging Markets increased to $3.3 billion.

In the fourth quarter, Biopharmaceutical revenues in Emerging Markets declined 2% operationally. Although that business experienced volume growth of 3%, this was more than offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange, 2% increased pricing pressures, changes in institutional purchase patterns in Turkey and Brazil, currency devaluation in Venezuela, and Lipitor's loss of exclusivity in Brazil and Mexico 2010. It's important to note that for the full year 2011, Biopharmaceutical revenues in all Emerging Markets grew 5% operationally, which reflects operational growth of 10% and price reductions of 5%. Biopharmaceutical revenues increased 6% operationally to about $4.2 billion in the BRIC-MT markets in 2011. As you can see, in 2011, we again met or exceeded all elements of our full-year financial guidance, including achieving our cost reduction target associated with the Wyeth acquisition one year ahead of plan, generating more than $4 billion of cost reductions on an operational basis compared with the 2008 combined costs of Pfizer and Wyeth.

Looking ahead to 2012, we're updating some elements of our full-year financial guidance and providing a guidance range for adjusted cost of sales for the first time. Specifically, we have reduced the guidance ranges for reported revenues and adjusted diluted EPS, primarily to reflect the strengthening of the US dollar against major currencies from mid-October of 2011 to mid-January 2012. We now expect 2012 reported revenues to be in the range of $60.5 billion to $62.5 billion and we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.30. In addition, we expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.37 to $1.52. We've lowered the guidance range for adjusted SI&A to $17 billion to $18 billion and we expect adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues to be in the range of 20.5% to 21.5%.

Finally, moving on to key take-aways, I'm very pleased that this year we again met or exceeded all components of our financial guidance, including achieving the cost reduction target associated with the Wyeth acquisition ahead of schedule. We've updated certain components of our 2012 guidance, primarily to reflect the significant unfavorable changes in the currency rates from mid-October of 2011 to mid-January of 2012. We remain on track to finalize strategic decisions for our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses in 2012 and continue to expect that any separation of these businesses from Pfizer will occur between July of 2012 and July of 2013. In 2011, we returned $15.2 billion to shareholders through $6.2 billion in dividends and $9 billion in share repurchases and we remain committed to allocating our capital in order to deliver attractive shareholder returns in 2012 and beyond. Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. At this point, Operator, can we please poll for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I don't have to tell you guys that getting your share count down is going to make a big difference in the way people look at your pipeline and your product story in fueling growth. I know you know that. But obviously, there can be big swings in what people expect from you in the longer term EPS based on what you do there. There's a lot of questions about the various scenarios of how you use the proceeds from Nutritional and Animal Health towards buying back shares. I'm wondering, are you thinking about giving us any new guidance on share repurchase once you announce these transactions or is this something that we're going to have to monitor? Are you thinking about the proceeds from these transactions as earmarked in a different way than the way you're giving us your strategy from the year-to-year cash flow that you generate? Thanks.

IAN READ: Let me start and then Frank can add to it. There's been no change in our strategy from 2011 into '12. We've said that the use of our cash post-dividends, post-investment in the business will be stock buybacks is the first test. We remain aligned with that. If we complete the separation of the Nutritional and Animal Health, then the funds from that will be tested against the best investment with stock buyback being the baseline. Frank, do you want to add to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: I'd just punctuate what Ian said, Catherine, which is the proceeds from those businesses, assuming we do separation, the case to beat is buybacks. That's what we've said. That's what we continue to say, and that's what we will do relative to anything with those businesses. Let me just run a couple of numbers, which is if you look last year, Ian and I mentioned, we returned $15 billion to shareholders. Of that, $9 billion were buybacks.

We bought back 459 million shares with that $9 billion. We've said this year approximately $5 billion in buybacks, plus another $6 billion-plus in dividends, $11 billion-plus for the year. In the last two years, we'll have returned $26 billion. What we're estimating this year plus what we did last year in capital directly to shareholders.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I appreciate your providing us your vision for what Pfizer might look like post-2012 in terms of two different companies -- an innovative core and a cash generator and the commitment to grow the Company on a consistent basis. Can you provide a little bit more color behind that in terms of how we should think about the revenue outlook? Obviously, post-Lipitor there's still other patent expirations, obviously, divesting $6.5 billion to $7 billion worth of companies, and then, on the bottom line, what that could look like? If you could be just a little bit more specific on your top and bottom line growth aspirations post-2012?

My second question is more to do with just your view of the reshaping of Pfizer's portfolio. A lot of the discussion last year focused on what that portfolio might look like and your goal was to achieve a smaller, more focused company. When I step back, I'm still looking at a $60 billion company, which is huge. I'm wondering if you have discovered, through the process of being CEO, other options that might now be on the table that weren't earlier in the year, that could lead to a further reshaping of the portfolio. Thanks very much.

IAN READ: I'll try to lay it out by saying I look at the Company in two parts. Clearly, with the post-Lipitor, we've got through the bulk of the LOEs, but still continue to have sequential LOEs through 2015. I tend to look on the top line in two companies one, if we take it as the innovative core and we see the growth coming from that, that, in my mind is a growth company that's sustainable with a research engine that's sized and would be predictable. And then I look at a value company that will have to absorb the post-LOE impact of the transfers and then from that base, will be stable or grow, given it'll have emerging market growth, et cetera, et cetera. Top line growth will be the impact of those two factors and I'm more focused on our ability to produce predictable and consistent EPS growth over time as we manage those two businesses. Now, to your second question, I feel that while we are a $60 billion-plus business, that's prior to any decisions on the separation of Nutritional and Animal Health. Then laying out this clear vision of two businesses, I think leads, to increased visibility, two business models, different cost structures, different priorities, and I think it will allow the street to clearly see the value of those two businesses inside of Pfizer.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: On your 2012 guidance, you said revenues and earnings were lowered, primarily due to FX. Were there any other contributing factors? Then, second, Lilly's Q4 call was dominated by questions about solanezumab in Europe, the product bapineuzumab is going to have important data in the current year as well, yet you never seem to talk about it too much. I'm hoping I can ask you a few questions on this. The first is, what would be the timing and venue for seeing the results of the two US trials? The second is, can you confirm that you'll likely present the results for both trials at the same time, like Lilly will do? And then the third point, have there been futility analyses done with bapineuzumab of these three trials?

IAN READ: Frank, perhaps you can address the first question and then I would ask Olivier to answer the question on bapineuzumab.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On 2012 guidance, we'll start with the bottom line. If you look at what the previous bottom line was and now what the current one is for adjusted diluted EPS, it went from $2.25 to $2.35 to $2.20 to $2.30. That $0.05 is entirely due to foreign exchange. If you look at revenue, revenue went from $62.2 billion to $64.7 billion to $60.5 billion to $62.5 billion. On average, if you look at the bottom of the range and the top of the range, we lowered the 2012 revenue number by about $2 billion, approximately two-thirds of that was due to foreign exchange.

The other one-third was really due to, I'll call it, three areas. One was a more challenging environment in the EU. Second one was more focused generic product offerings in certain emerging markets. And the third was lower than expected volume growth in emerging markets due to accelerated price cuts. That said, we still see robust growth opportunities in those markets but the volume is less than we expected.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. Reemphasizing that, it's just that, as price cuts occur in emerging markets, we expect volume to respond. In '11, we saw the response slightly slower than we had expected in our original projections and we corrected for that in '12. Olivier?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, PRESIDENT & GM, PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC.: In terms of timing, it's the same timing that we talked about in the previous calls. Studies are going to be read out by mid-year and we will report the results as soon as possible afterwards in a scientific meeting. There was no futility analysis done on those studies, and I would like to actually mention that the two products, those are two compounds targeting different epitope on the beta-amyloid peptides and that may trigger two very different mechanism of actions, and therefore, the results of one may not be transferable to the results of the other one. However, I must say that, based on what we heard this morning, we heard the alliance views the decision to continue on solanezumab with interest and we're maintaining confidence in the immediate pathway for our AD program.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, BOA Merrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: First, for Ian and Frank, given that we're actually getting closer to seeing proceeds, I want to better understand the buyback being "the case to beat" comment you've been making. Buyback offers immediate accretion, while good acquisitions often take a few years to generate a return. How are you truly comparing the two? Is it an accretion in an out year or something like that? And then for Dave Simmons, what has been the key positives and negatives learned from your Lipitor strategy and how that might shape future strategy for generic launches? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. On the buybacks, I think it's clear that we look at the value of the share in the market today and we have models to look at the value of the share on a discounted cash flow basis. We look on that return on a buyback, along with the impact of dividend payments being lowered by the buyback. That gives us a certain financial return and we compare that to the opportunities we have of acquiring businesses and the net present value of those businesses. It really is an economic view of what is the best use of the funds for Pfizer shareholders. Lipitor, Dave?

DAVE SIMMONS, PRESIDENT & GM, EMERGING MARKETS AND ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER INC.: Gregg, the question on learnings from Lipitor, I'd probably break these into two pieces. The first is, we've done a lot of market research, and learned, one, that in-depth, the incentives that are occurring from different stakeholders in the healthcare environment during the LOE period, both from day 1 to day 180 and then also post-180, and this cuts across payers, pharmacists, and the patients themselves and through those learnings and research, we've also been able to discover a significant percentage of patients who want to remain on the brand. They don't feel that they understand how they can do that and we've been developing strategies of how to tap into that desire without increasing costs to the healthcare system. The learnings are on that front. The second thing that I would add in is that the response to the strategies we've put in have been very strong.

We're pleased with where we are in the Lipitor progress. Our share of branded Lipitor is tracking some 40%-plus higher than historic analogs, so the strategies appear to be working. And as we go into upcoming LOEs, assuming we get the same type of market research reads, we will be applying the learnings from Lipitor, tweaking them, and trying to continue with our core goal, which is to make sure we maximize revenue, profit, and patient value from our brands.

IAN READ: Thank you, David. That being said, the Lipitor opportunity is unique in its size and the 180-day period. I'm not sure how many molecules going forward will have that same dynamic, as I believe the law has been changed to allow same-day filing, so you won't have one company with 180-day exclusivity. You'll have multiple companies, so I think that will change the dynamic of post-LOE marketplace.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Appreciate the color, Ian, on the two separate businesses post-divestitures of Nutritional and Animal Health. Can you maybe go a little bit more in detail on the description of how you return the pharma portion of that business to growth relative to the value portion? And then how you resource those two parts of the business and is there additional room for improvements in the efficiency of R&D and what you're spending in SI&A as you think about those going forward? Second question on the ACIP panel, just help us understand what kind of recommendation you're expecting out of that panel and how that is potentially going to facilitate the uptake of Prevnar 13 in adults? Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. I'll take the first one and ask Geno to talk to the second one. Thanks for the question, John. I think fundamentally this sort of separation in my mind or in fact in the way we run the businesses, will allow a focus on an innovative core and a clear understanding of the capital being deployed and the growth expectations from innovative products. It'll allow the marketplace and ourselves to have a lot clearer view on our returning cost of capital on our innovative endeavors and we'll allow a bit of evaluation of that business and our management to be held to better performance standards. And your SI&A spend as well, which will be more tailored towards physician than investment in innovative products, whereas you move to the value business, it becomes the business that absorbs the impact of LOEs and then continues to grow post that and adds strong brands from emerging markets and is a value cash engine with a completely different cost structure. In my mind, it does allow clear evaluation by the marketplace of our management of two businesses with two distinct models. With that, I would hand it over to Geno to talk to ACIP.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT & GM, SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC.: Yes, on the ACIP question, John, it's typical for ACIP to provide recommendations to the healthcare system after the approval of a new vaccine. Prevnar 13 was approved in December by FDA under their accelerated approval provision, recognizing the significant unmet need for a serious medical condition, in this case, pneumococcal pneumonia. The ACIP needs to deliberate and discuss how this vaccine should be used, or recommended to be used in light of the availability of a polysaccharide vaccine for the over 65 population. We're not privy to exactly how they are going to vote or how they're going to guide on the use of Prevnar 13. But we know that Prevnar 13 is certainly a different vaccine with a conjugate technology and the ultimate recommendations will influence the uptake of the vaccine in the US.

IAN READ: In addition to that, post their recommendation, we will have the CAPITA trial, we expect by the end of '12 or early '13.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: One, can you give us a little more color on Prevnar in the quarter? Just seemed a little lighter than what we would have expected. And then second, can you give us an update on the uptake of crizotinib, what's going on behind the scenes there? And also, an update on Remoxy and what's happening there? Thanks.

IAN READ: Geno can do the Prevnar and the Xalkori and then ask Olivier to talk about Remoxy.

GENO GERMANO: So for Prevnar 13, Prevnar 13's humming along. Overall worldwide sales were $3.7 billion in 2011, up 50% from 2010, so the vaccine is doing extremely well on a global basis. As you mentioned, sales in the fourth quarter in the US atypically were soft compared to the fourth quarter of 2010, and it's simply because the catch-up opportunity was strong in the fourth quarter 2010. Comparing one quarter to the other, we see a change in the growth rate. The fourth quarter of '11, we had much less catch-up and there was some adjustment of inventories in doctor's offices and in the supply chain as a result of that reestablished demand level for Prevnar 13. In terms of Xalkori or crizotinib, this was approved last summer, a new personalized medicine with a companion diagnostic. We're happy with the progress so far.

The diagnostic is widely available now, essentially in all major clinical sites and academic medical centers. Usage is accelerating pretty dramatically. There's been a doubling of the use of the diagnostic so far, and we expect yet another doubling of the use of diagnostic in this coming year. Growth for Xalkori, of crizotinib, is going to come from the accumulation of new patients and the sustained duration of therapy. We know from our Phase II trials that patients were sustained for a much longer period of time than on previous therapies. We see the development of the drug occurring over time. And then, of course, we're continuing to explore utilization of crizotinib in other subtypes of patients with different mutations, and in combinations with other pipeline therapies.

IAN READ: Thank you. Olivier?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Marc, on Remoxy, we spent the last few months trying to understand the issue. We have now a much better understanding of the formulation, the manufacturing controls, and what we need as analytical test in terms of method. In addition to that, we will have to conduct two bioavailability studies that we will run during the second quarter of this year, and when we will have all of this data, we think that will constitute the basis for our engagement with the FDA and we anticipate meeting with the FDA during the third quarter of this year to discuss next steps.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier.

OPERATOR: Barbara Ryan, Deutsche Bank.

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Ian, you talked about the two different businesses, the innovative core and the more mature established products and the different P&Ls, and the focus on that from investors. I'm just wondering when and if you would provide more transparency into the difference of the P&Ls of those two companies so we could in fact value them and model them differently? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thanks for the question. I sort of see that developing approach to that as we go through '12. We need to first of all, complete the potential separation of Nutrition and Animal Health. And then as we do that and we look at our P&Ls and we enter into late '12 or '13, I expect for us to have a clearer way of describing those two businesses to the shareholders. And I think going back to a question from Jami, we see our research being focused on neuroscience and CV Med, Oncology, inflammation, vaccines and pain. And so that's a refocused portfolio where we are looking to really focus on personalized medicine and bringing forward products that have a differentiation, both in the clinic and from a genetic standpoint. I think that's the type of transformation we're talking about in our science.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Historically, Pfizer has treated businesses to be divested as discontinued, so what does not considering Animal and Nutrition discontinued tell us about the status of the actions on those businesses? Secondly, on tofacitinib, did Pfizer request a priority review and it was turned down by FDA? And then thirdly, should we assume that a good portion of the Lipitor sales force at peak, so at the peak marketing force, will be marketing Eliquis? And I'm also wondering if you'd help us craft an expectation for the rollout? Should we think of the rollout as Pradaxa or Xarelto-like or would you like us to think about it as being appreciably better driven by the data? Thank you very much.

IAN READ: Frank, if you could take the first question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. In terms of not having discontinued ops treatment as of today, Steve, that's because no decision's been made. We've said all along, we're on track to finalize our strategic decisions regarding the Animal Health and Nutrition business. We said we'd do that this year. We're pleased with the progress we've made to date. In terms of our objective, nothing's changed. Our objective is to generate, to create the greatest after-tax value for our shareholders and we will be providing updates on this as we move through the year. But the reason why it's not being accounted for as discontinued operation is simply because we haven't made a final decision.

GENO GERMANO: On the tofacitinib question, we did not request a priority review. We are seeking a broad label with usage in patients in the second line, as well as third line therapy. We didn't go for a priority review for an unmet need in the post-TNF indication.

IAN READ: Okay, and on the Lipitor sales force I'll make a couple of comments and then Olivier can add to it. From the point of view you're modeling, our resources have been dimensioned for both post-Lipitor and an Eliquis launch as of the end of the fourth quarter of this year. As regard to Eliquis, I see that marketplace, number one, I see the advent of having three products in that segment as positive in the sense of it's a new class that needs medical education, it needs continuing promotion, and having three products in that class, we see expansion of the class, and we would expect, given the fact that the strength of our data, for us to take a leadership role in that class. Olivier, do you want to give a take on that?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Nothing much to add, frankly. With BMS, we think we have optimized the launch and we are putting the right amount of resources to make sure that we are very competitive with cardiologists and primary care physicians, and as you said, it's going to be competitive, but we think we have one of the best-in-class profile and, again, we have the right resources behind it.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I had a couple questions on the growth outlooks. With respect to Emerging Markets, the revenue growth ex currency was 5% in 2011. Can you please provide a little bit of color on what the growth outlook is in 2012? And then basically similar questions with respect to Nutritional and Animal Health; Nutritional grew 11% last year, constant currency, I'm hoping you might be able to provide some color on the outlook for '12. And Animal grew 14% last year, wondering if you could provide perspectives on the growth outlook for that segment? Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay. I'll make a couple comments on Emerging Markets and I'll ask Frank to handle the questions on Nutritional and Animal Health. Emerging Markets growth in '11 was volume 10% and the price reductions of 5% were beyond our expectations of the sustainable price reductions in Emerging Markets. We continue to expect volume at double-digits and we expect to continue to see pricing pressures, but not of a level we saw in 2011. David, do you want to add any more color to that?

DAVE SIMMONS: Yes. A couple items. When we look at emerging markets as a backdrop, we see two fundamentally strong trends that aren't going away over time. One is the increase in population masses overall and the second is increase in the wealth of these population masses. That's the backdrop that keeps us very optimistic about opportunities in Emerging Markets. Now, as Ian mentioned, the price erosion we saw in 2011 was a little stronger than what we had anticipated and we've factored that into our views going forward. We do expect to improve our growth rate moving forward. We would expect to increase this up to high single-digits and our strategies to do that are focused around maximizing the opportunity space of our in-line, innovative portfolio, having very, very targeted approaches to the generic market, more targeted than we've ever had, and also being able to adapt to unique local market opportunities. Those are the three fundamental strategic pillars that we think will cause an uplift in the inflection in growth rate.

IAN READ: Thank you, David.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Then on our Animal Health and Nutri, let me just add the absolute numbers to that. Animal Health this past year, we did $4.2 billion in sales and in the Nutri business, we did [$2.1 billion] in sales and both had strong growth rates of 14% and 10%, respectively. $2.1 billion in Nutri, $4.2 billion in Animal Health.

IAN READ: Correct.

FRANK D'AMELIO: We expect strong performance going forward and all of that performance has been factored into our 2012 guidance.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: First, can you talk about your established product growth here? It's tough for us to get a clean read on this, given some of the recent off-patent asset securing growth, like Effexor. Could you just talk about the decline you're seeing in that business, let's say for the pre-2010 products in this portfolio, helping us understanding the kind of underlying trends you're seeing in that business? Second, on gross margins, can you just confirm what your expectations for gross margins are for this year and what type of quarterly progression we should be thinking about, given the Lipitor decline throughout the year? What I'm trying to get at here is what should gross margins look like exiting this year? And the final question is on the tax rate -- it's roughly 500 basis points above your competitors. Why are we seeing this and when or if should we start thinking about this rate starting to come down? Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, Chris. David could comment on the established products and Frank could handle the gross margin and the tax rate.

DAVE SIMMONS: Sure. Chris, you're asking the question the right way. You've got to separate out the products that are going through LOE events last year and into this year, because you've got an abnormal comp. If you remove out Zosyn, Protonix, and Effexor, that was the major cause of the decline in established products. When you go back to that original base of legacy Pfizer brands going back to 2009, plus the addition of growth initiatives, like some of the generic work we've been doing, what you see is that business that was decreasing three years ago at about minus 18% to minus 20%, that business has been stabilized.

If you look on that basis this year, the growth on that business segment plus those select growth initiatives got to flat. We stopped the deterioration on that business. Those strategies will continue going forward, whether we can hold that line or not, we'll have to see. It's a very dynamic market in this off-patent market.

IAN READ: Thank you, David.

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think I'll answer this by doing cost of sales and then the gross margin it's just a reciprocal. In 2011, our cost of sales was 19.3% for the year. Our guidance for 2012 is 20.5% to 21.5% on cost of sales guidance. What's happening there, clearly, is that's increasing, which means there's downward pressure on the gross margin and that's based on the change or shift in the Company's business and geographic mix, including things like the Lipitor LOE. That said, we continue to believe we can achieve operating margins in the high 30%s to low 40%s, because some of the primary care revenue's being replaced by revenues, in places like emerging markets where we don't need as much of an expense base to generate those revenues. There's clearly some pressures on gross margins, but we continue to believe we can generate operating margins that are in the high 30%s to low 40%s. In terms of quarter to quarter, there will be volatility quarter to quarter based on how the mix of the business changes from quarter to quarter, which is why we provide the guidance on an annual basis.

In terms of the tax rate, let me just give a little history on this and then I'll answer the question. Pre-Wyeth, our tax rate was in the low 20%s. When we announced the Wyeth acquisition, we increased the tax rate to approximately 30% and part of the reason for that had to do with the amount of cash that we planned on repatriating. That repatriation of cash continues, which is why we gave guidance for 2012 of approximately 29%, which is pretty much what we printed in 2011. We printed 29.5%. One other point on the 29.5%, it was down year over year to 29.7% in 2010 to 29.5% in 2011. In '12, we should assume that 25% and beyond '12, with all of the winds blowing fiscally, globally today, it's hard to predict tax rates, but I think we should assume, for the time being, a rate that's approximately 29%.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. The only thing that would change that would be fundamental tax reform in the United States, which we would hope would move the United States more in line with the rest of the developed world on its corporate tax rate, and even to the territorial system, which potentially, as you pointed out, would have a differential impact on Pfizer's ability versus the competitors.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jefferies.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Firstly, what the important read-outs could we see from tofacitinib this year in ongoing clinical studies? And if you can, give us any indication of potential time lines you think could happened there? Secondly, when you talk about fixing the innovative core, as you put it in your release, is that deemed to be an internal organic process or does that rely on, to some or a large extent, on acquisition or licensing going forward? And then just lastly, on the disposal process, news wires indicate that there's a number of buyers out there for the Nutrition business, but it's less clear on the Animal Health side. Can you give us any update if you are seeing a number of potential interested buyers for that business? Thank you.

IAN READ: Geno, if you could do the tofacitinib, I'd like to have Mikael to give a comment on the innovative core, which we see as both internally being better and also reaching out as far as our borders, seeking the best science, and the other question was on Animal Health, which Frank can deal with. Thank you.

GENO GERMANO: For tofacitinib, we read out our five pivotal trials over the course of the year in 2011. In 2012, there will be additional analyses from those databases that will be presented at EULAR and ACR later in the year. I really can't comment on the specifics about subanalyses that will be presented at this point.

IAN READ: Okay. Mikael, if you could just have a comment on the innovative core.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Yes, I'm very excited about the flow of the pipeline and you have seen strong discipline in the late-stage pipeline as exemplified by comments from Geno and Olivier, and we have a pipeline now with lots of opportunities of differentiated drugs from early, mid- to late stage. To give you highlights on some of the spaces that you not have been able to follow as closely, for immune inflammation, we have a number of Phase II assets, such as IL6 mAb associated steroids for indications from Crohns, RA to Lupus. In oncology, we have a number of exciting tyrosine kinase inhibitors in both solid and hematological tumors. In vaccine, we have not only Mening B but we have Staph Aureus in phase II studies and we are bringing in towards the clinic vaccine for nicotine and later into patients. In cardio-metabolics, you Olivier speak about Eliquis.

We have very encouraging data on our PCSK9 antibody for cholesterol lowering. We have multiple diabetes readouts in Phase II and we also have very interesting drug, PDE5, a very selective inhibitor for diabetic neuropathy. Similarly, neuropain where we had the discussion around Bapi, we are adding a new generation of drug in the pain portfolio with precision medicine focus, as Ian spoke to, and a couple of more earlier CNS drugs. As you can see, there is a lot of exciting drugs where we are, highly differentiated and either best or first in class in our aspiration.

IAN READ: Thank you, Michael. I'd like to reinforce that. We feel we've made good progress in the innovative core, but in a way, we feel Pfizer is at just the beginning as we continue to accelerate what we're doing by focusing in the therapeutic areas where we're in and merging together the biology and the chemistry that I think, biology from Wyeth and the chemistry from Pfizer to a best in class scientific organization.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then on Animal Health, we've not yet decided on what the potential method of monetization is. However, we continue to explore all options, and once again, with the goal being to maximize after-tax value to our shareholders, and on Animal Health, we are proceeding according to our internal plans. We remain on track and we are pleased with the progress that we've made to date.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Just one brief question around Enbrel. Reps that you have today that are marketing to rheumatologists, if we make an assumption that tofacitinib is approved, do you actually continue to market Enbrel given that your contract expires with Amgen in '13, I believe, and moreover, is this a product, actually, that will also be part of the bag of a rep who also is actually visiting primary care physicians? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you, Tony. I'll ask Geno to answer that question.

GENO GERMANO: For Enbrel in the US, we currently co-promote with Amgen and that arrangement will expire at the end of 2013. We are in dialogue with Amgen on how we'll make that transition, but ultimately, we will be promoting tofacitinib within Pfizer alone in the United States. Outside of the United States, we'll continue to have a role with Enbrel. We'll manage Enbrel and tofacitinib in countries outside of the United States.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Ian, maybe you could just discuss for us what we're seeing in Europe with these developed market value determinations, with the evolution of the German market, the GBA, and really what that might mean for the business and new products near term? Also, if you can just give us your 30,000-foot view in terms of the expectations for these types of developments broadening and how you're approaching those types of things strategically? Then lastly, can you also comment on what would prevent, if anything, a timely separation of either the Nutritionals business or the Animal Health business? Thanks much.

IAN READ: Okay. Thank you. Pretty expansive question there on Europe. I'll ask Frank to talk about the timeliness of the Animal Health business for a second and then come back to you on your first question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Relative to Animal Health and Nutri, I mentioned for both that progress is proceeding. We're pleased with the progress. Things are moving according to plan. In terms of what would hinder the progress at this point, I don't see anything at this point hindering our progress. I think we're going down a good path and pleased with the progress and I think we'll continue to move down a good path.

IAN READ: All right. Regarding Europe, Europe has had HTA, or healthcare technology assessments, for a long period of time and frankly, in Europe, as you pointed out, they tend to be used in conjunction with medical evidence, also, as a rationing tool. As our portfolio changes, as Lipitor goes LOE, as some of our primary care products go LOE and we become more a specialty, the medical differentiation and the value-add is a lot more visible to those authorities than perhaps a primary care product would be. My view is that this practice will continue to expand outside of Europe and it's appropriate that payers and the governments expect value from their medication. I think in the US, we'll see a broader view of what value is, including why the stakeholders in Europe, including the caregivers and the patients, a less narrow definition of value to society. I feel once again, our portfolio's evolving and certainly our research is focused in a way that we'll have the data and the differentiation to be successful in that environment where there is healthcare technology assessments. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. And thank you, everybody, for your attention this morning.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the Pfizer fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ahp : Wyeth Ltd | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120214e81v002jr
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,664 words
   PD
1 November 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP, IR, PFIZER INC.: Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's third quarter 2011 performance. I'm joined today by our CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten, President of Research and Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for Nutritionals; and David Simmons, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products. The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page, pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance third quarter 2011, located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, November 1, 2011.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck. During my remarks this morning, I will briefly recap some highlights from the quarter, provide an update on our capital allocation activities, including where we are with the annual health and nutritional and strategic reviews, comment on some of the continued progress we're seeing in the productivity of our innovative core, and close with a few comments about the external market and political environment we are operating within.

Overall, we delivered a solid financial performance for the quarter, despite a challenging global operating environment and the ongoing impact from LOEs. Given our performance year to date, we have increased our EPS guidance range for the full year. In terms of highlights for the quarter, our emerging markets business had a strong quarter, delivering operational growth of 12%, with solid performance in key countries such as China, Russia, Turkey, and India. While we know these markets will continue to be volatile going forward, our performance this quarter demonstrates the traction we are getting as a result of the investments we are making. We saw strong performance this quarter from Lipitor in the US. We have worked hard to maximize the value of and best position the brand ahead of the LOE. We are well prepared as the November 30, LOE date in the US approaches.

I am pleased with the continued progress of our established products business to penetrate the growing generics market, both in developed markets, as well as within emerging markets. Close to $1 billion of the $3.2 billion in total revenue for established products, in both the emerging markets and established products unit, came from emerging markets. Overall, the performance of our established products unit was strong, excluding the impact of LOEs experienced this quarter. I would also note our established products business has stepped in to help address recent drug shortages within the US, particularly in the area of off-patent oncology products.

In specialty care, our Prevnar franchise continues to do well. While sales performance in the US reflected a tail end of the catch-up opportunity, we saw continued growth in most international markets. The underlying demand for Prevnar remains robust. Animal health, nutrition, and consumer all turned in strong quarters operationally, with animal health growing 15%, nutrition growing 24%, and consumer growing 11% over the same quarter last year. And in Japan, our second-largest market, we generated 19% operational growth Company-wide.

And we continue to see the benefits of our process improvements and cost reduction work this quarter. We are finding new ways of doing business that we believe will further enhance our competitiveness by using fewer resources without compromising our ability to operate. A recent example is the work underway to globally consolidate certain commercial operations, including such activities as market research, data analytics, and training. Frank will take you through the details of the quarter, but I would sum it up as a quarter where we performed well despite significant head winds resulting from LOEs that amounted to approximately $950 million and the uncertainties created by the economic troubles experienced most visibly in Europe.

Next, I will turn to the activities we have underway to enhance shareholder value. We started the year sharing with you the steps we would take to allocate our capital in ways that enhance shareholder value. This quarter, we took another significant step in delivering on this goal by repurchasing more than $2 billion of shares. This brings our year-to-date total to $6.5 billion, and today, we've increased our full year share repurchase projection to between $7 billion and $9 billion. Additionally, we began the year with a projection that we would achieve a dividend payout ratio of approximately 40% in about 2 years. We remain committed to that goal.

Regarding the decision to explore strategic alternatives in nutritional and animal health businesses, we are making solid progress in the initial work required to support the form of separation for each that would yield the greatest after-tax return for shareholders. Our planning and preparatory actions remain on track, and we'll be in a position to announce our strategic decision in 2012 for each business, with any separations occurring between July of 2012 and July of 2013. Following the potential separation of these businesses, Pfizer will be a global biopharmaceutical company composed of innovative commercial units that are supported by an efficient R&D organization with an established products business that is well positioned in terms of geography and product portfolio, and which generates strong operating cash flow and a consumer healthcare business that brings a deep knowledge of consumers and pharmacists. Going forward, the innovative core will play a significant role in Pfizer's future, and I believe the steps we are taking to improve our performance here are paying off.

We are seeing good results across each of our biopharmaceutical units in terms of new products that are approved, in registration, or close to filing. In oncology, we launched Xalkori in the US and submitted it for approval in Europe and Japan. We also submitted Axitinib in both the US and Europe. In specialty care, we are pleased with the results we have seen with tofacitinib in the Phase III rheumatoid arthritis program and continue to anticipate accepted filings in the US and Europe and a filing in Japan before the end of this year. Just last week, we received approval in Europe for Prevnar 13 in adults age 50 and older for the prevention of evasive pneumococcal disease, and here in the US, we continue to anticipate a decision early next year. In primary care, the submission for Eliquis for stroke prevention and atrial fibrillation was validated for review in Europe last week, and our partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb, expects to have an accepted filing in the US for this indication by the end of the year.

While these 6 compounds are the near-term drivers of our innovative global commercial units, I am encouraged by the next wave of compounds and additional indications that is emerging behind these in our pipeline. We have a robust combination of new molecular entities that include biologics, small molecules, and large molecules. If successful, they will transition into our commercial units. In oncology, we have 2 Phase III compounds, dacomitinib for non-small-cell lung cancer, and inotuzumab for aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We also see potential opportunities to further expand Xalkori within the non-small cell cancer segments. We have recently started registration studies for our meningococcal B vaccine, with a pivotal study expected to commence in the near future, pending trial design discussions with the FDA. In Alzheimer's, we continue to progress a Phase III program for bapineuzumab. In the area of immunology, we are advancing our clinical development program for tofacitinib and plan to initiate Phase III trials in ulcerative colitis and a Phase II trial in Crohn's disease in 2012.

We also have an expanding portfolio of antiinflammatory drugs in Phase II, with novel biological programs in inflammatory bowel disease. And we have a cholesterol reduction compound for hypercholesterolemia that is in Phase II and a combined Phase I, II vaccine for staph aureus. Regarding the assets we've acquired from King, many of the King products are doing well, such as EpiPen, FlectorPatch, and Skelaxin. For Remoxy and Embeda, we are continuing to make progress in the pharmaceutical sciences and manufacturing characterization of those abuse deterrent opioid compounds. Concerning Embeda, we are committed to returning it to the market as soon as the stability issue is resolved. We are actively progressing 3 possible pathways, and we have several key decisions pointing -- sorry, several key decisions during 2012 that will determine the necessary corrective action, as well as the timing for reaching out to regulatory authorities. For Remoxy, there are also several key decision points over the next several months that will determine the timing and nature of our response to the FDA's complete response letter.

Overall, we are making solid progress. I am confident in our ability to further strengthen our midstage pipeline. The work our R&D organization is doing to increase its productivity and share risk is gaining traction. We are spending smartly, eliminating non-productive spending, and instilling a greater ROA mentality, driven by our chief scientific officers. Finally, I want to acknowledge that there exists uncertainty around macroeconomic issues, given the supercommittee deliberations and continuing issues in European economies. Regarding the budget goals of the supercommittee, we believe that the pharmaceutical industry has contributed substantially already, and we anticipate this will be recognized.

In Europe, pricing pressures remain consistent with what we've experienced last quarter. We are seeing mid-single-digit reductions and are assuming this level of impact going forward. In terms of balance sheet assets, we have minimal exposure to Portugal, Italy, Greece, and Ireland. I believe we are positioned as best as we can be, given what we know at this time. We continue to have strong financial flexibility, and we will monitor the situation closely.

In summary, I remain optimistic about the opportunities we have and the pace of change I see within our R&D organization. In particular, the entrepreneurial spirit, the collaboration between commercial units and research, and the genuine can-do attitude I observed when spending time with our colleagues. There is a more tangible sense of urgency, confidence, and commitment that I believe will serve as a foundation to enable Pfizer to deliver meaningful increases in value for our shareholders over time.

Now, I'll turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone.

As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast. Now, let's move on to the results. Revenues of about $17.2 billion increased 7% quarter-over-quarter, which reflects operational growth of $247 million, or 1%, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $951 million, or 6%. The 1% operational growth includes the addition of King Products, which favorably impacted revenues by $353 million, or 2%, which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the US healthcare reform of $151 million, or 1%. In addition, we continue to absorb the impact of the loss of exclusivity of several products in certain geographies, which in the third quarter negatively impacted revenues by approximately $950 million, or 6%. Reported net income and reported diluted EPS were favorably impacted by the $1.3 billion after-tax gain on the sale of Capsugel in Q3 of '11, the non-recurrence of $1.5 billion in pre-tax impairment charges, and a $701 million pre-tax charge for litigation, both occurring in Q3 of 2010, and increased revenue compared with Q3 of 2010. And were unfavorably impacted by the loss of exclusivity of certain products and increased expenses incurred for cost reduction and productivity initiatives.

Third quarter 2011 adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 19.3%, compared with 17.8% in the year-ago quarter, due primarily to the negative impact of foreign exchange and a shift in product and business mix. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange on revenue and cost of sales, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 18.7% for the quarter. Adjusted total cost increased 3%. However, excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange, costs related to legacy King operations, healthcare reform, and the Puerto Rico excise tax, adjusted total costs decreased by approximately 5%, primarily due to our ongoing cost reduction and productivity initiatives. Adjusted income increased 11% year-over-year due to increased revenues, which reflects the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which was partially offset by loss of exclusivity for certain products and increased cost of sales due to a shift in products and product and business mix. Adjusted diluted EPS increased 15%, which included a $0.02 benefit from the decline in the number of shares outstanding.

As I previously stated, foreign exchange positively impacted third quarter revenues by $951 million, or 6%, and negatively impacted adjusted total costs by $541 million, or 6%. As a result, foreign exchange favorably impacted adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.04. As I mentioned previously, in the third quarter, we experienced total operational growth of 1% driven by growth in the emerging markets, consumer healthcare, animal healthcare, and the nutrition businesses, growth from certain key products, the addition of King Products, and foreign exchange. And again, I want to point out that in the third quarter, we continued to absorb revenue declines as a result of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies. The impact this quarter was approximately $950 million.

Third quarter revenues generated from both biopharmaceutical and other businesses in emerging markets increased 21% year-over-year, and biopharmaceutical revenues grew 12% operationally in those markets. It's important to note that over the same period, Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico, and Turkey contributed a combined 53% of the overall growth in emerging markets, and revenues from the biopharmaceutical businesses in the BRIC MT markets grew 13% operationally to approximately $1.1 billion. In addition, year-to-date biopharmaceutical revenues in BRIC MT markets increased 9% operationally to $3.2 billion. Finally, enterprise-wide revenues generated by sales in emerging markets totaled approximately $3.4 billion in the third quarter.

Based on year-to-date performance and outlook for the remainder of 2011, we are increasing our adjusted diluted EPS guidance range to $2.24 to $2.29 from $2.16 to $2.26. In addition, we're narrowing the range of the components of our 2011 financial guidance, including raising the lower end of our revenue guidance. As expected, our cost of sales in the fourth quarter will reflect the impact of the seasonal uptick we typically experience during the quarter and Lipitor's loss of US exclusivity on November 30. In addition, our expected SI&A expenses for the remainder of the year will include the impact of increased spending in connection with the launch of Xalkori, pre-launch expenses for anticipated new products, seasonal spending patterns, and the continued spending to support the Lipitor brand, pre and post its loss of exclusivity to maximize its value. Given our continued confidence in our future business performance, we are reaffirming all elements of our 2012 financial targets. I want to point out that we continue to expect our 2012 target range for adjusted operating margin to be in the high 30s to low 40s percentages, and we expect negative impact on our cost of sales due to shifts in product and business mix to be mitigated by the continuing benefits of our productivity and cost reduction initiatives.

Finally, moving on to key take-aways, we delivered solid quarterly financial performance, despite the continuing -- the continued challenging global operating environment and the continued impact from the loss of exclusivity of several key products. Based on our year-to-date performance and outlook for the rest of 2011, we are updating the components of our 2011 financial guidance, including increasing our adjusted diluted EPS guidance. We're continuing to improve the performance of our innovative core, making significant advances in our mid- to late-stage pipeline, and we now anticipate repurchasing $7 billion to $9 billion of our shares in 2011. In fact, during the third quarter, we repurchased $2.1 billion, or 112.9 million shares, and to date, we have repurchased approximately $6.5 billion, or 331.6 million shares. We have remaining authorization to repurchase up to $2.5 billion more of our shares under the current Board-approved repurchase program, and we're positioning the business to continue to deliver shareholder value over time.

With that, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. Operator, at this point, if we could please poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions).

Your first question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you for taking my questions. Couple of questions.

First, on Lipitor, Frank or Ian, if you could provide a little bit more color on how you see the 180-day exclusivity period play out for you, specifically, what your intelligence is telling you on Ranbaxy, if Ranbaxy indeed will be on the market on time. And number two, Watson just told that they expected that you would retain about 40% market share. Just wondering if you could provide a little bit of color around that and, is most of that being driven by the mail order business, or is that part retail? Is it a mixture of both? That would be my first question.

My second question relates to capital allocation. $7 billion to $9 billion in share repurchases is a huge number, and congratulations. Just was wondering, though, if that is the sort of rate of repurchases that we should now come to expect, given your very strong cash flow going forward. Thanks.

IAN READ: So thank you, Jami. On Lipitor, I'm going to ask Frank to answer most the questions, but I would like to point out that we have addressed the Lipitor LOE very seriously. We've put in a lot of, I believe, very good programs to continue to support it, to drive brand loyalty, and negotiating with payors in the distribution channel, and we're trying to build a strong pre and post plan. So I would ask Frank to add some comments and perhaps Olivier.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the first part of the Lipitor question, Jami, we are assuming that Watson will enter the market upon LOE. We are also assuming that Ranbaxy will enter the market upon LOE, the LOE, obviously, being November 30 of this year. And we assume that 180 days from when Ranbaxy enters the market, there will be multiple players that enter the market as well. So that's the assumption on what we're assuming relative to the 180-day window.

Olivier?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, PRESIDENT & GM, PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER INC.: Thanks. I can add that we are continuing to promote Lipitor in order to maximize the brand opportunities, as Ian said, both pre and post LOE. You probably have seen in the third quarter we reported Lipitor US at about 13%, and primarily the result of the promotion, which is based on the higher-risk patient targeted DTC Lipitor $4 co-pay card, which we have launched in December last year, and a new program we launched recently in September called the Lipitor For You program, which includes not only assisted co-pay but also a very targeted program in support of certain patient. So, we also have partnered, to your point, with some customer so that patients can remain or even begin taking branded Lipitor, and we are continuing to explore opportunities to partner with others. So, we're definitely supporting the brand, again, and maximizing the brand, pre and post LOE.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then on the capital allocation question on the $7 billion to $9 billion, let me run some numbers, Jami, and then I'll answer your question. So, year to date now, we have repurchased $6.5 billion worth of our shares, almost 332 million shares. This past quarter, $2.1 billion worth of our shares, 112.9 million shares. And we increased our target in terms of repurchases from what was $5 billion to $7 billion to $7 billion to $9 billion. So that's all the numbers for this year.

Then, what you really asked me about was, what about going forward? And the way I'll answer that question is buybacks have been and will continue to be one of our priorities for capital allocation. But we have other priorities. The dividend is another priority. Bolt-on acquisitions is another priority. Investing in the business is another priority. And how we handle our debt and then, finally, how much cash we repatriate. I don't want to forecast what we're going to do or not do specific to buybacks going forward, because I don't view that as an "and/or." It's an "and," relative to everything else that we do on our capital allocation.

IAN READ: With that being said, I think we have track record, especially this year, of showing that we are acutely focused on shareholder value, and we'll take those decisions as the situation evolves to make those decisions in the best interest of the shareholders.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks. Next question, please, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Catherine Arnold from Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thank you very much. Good morning.

I was wondering, just to give some more color on the Lipitor expectations in terms of share retention and contracting, did you have those expectations whenever you originally gave us the 2012 guidance? And then, I wondered if you could give us a little bit more color on the tax rate and if there was repatriation activity that might have also been an explanation for the higher tax rate and how we should extrapolate that in longer term. Thanks.

CHUCK TRIANO: Could you do that, Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. So, in terms of the tax rate, maybe the way I'll answer that, Catherine, is, the adjusted rate for the quarter was 30.9%. Last year, it was 30.2%. So, what caused the increase was really a change in the jurisdictional mix of our earnings, which was partially offset by the extension of the R&D tax credit. So that's kind of what happened on a quarter over quarter basis.

In terms of going forward, we forecasted for this year. We reaffirmed our approximately 29%. We did that for next year as well. So at least for the remainder of this year and for next year, assume the tax rate continues to be approximately 25%. Beyond 2012, I think it's just -- it's premature to try to say, given kind of the various financial challenges that are in numerous places in the world today and the economical challenges that go along with that. I think 29% for next year, beyond that, I think too soon to tell.

And then you mentioned repatriation. So, maybe let me comment on that, not in terms of anything extraordinary that we did this quarter. It was really a mix of earnings this quarter. But in terms of just repatriation, I want to bump it up a level and really describe it as we think tax reform debate, the debates will continue. We have been and will continue to be proactive in those debates, and Pfizer supports any comprehensive tax reform that will make the US multinationals more competitive internationally. So that's how I would answer the questions, Ian.

IAN READ: Thank you. And on Lipitor in the forecast?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, in terms of the forecast, that was all incorporated, factored into our existing 2012 targets.

IAN READ: Thank you, Catherine.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Great, thanks very much. First question with regards to crizotinib, can you talk about your expected uptake of ALK testing and what's the launch trajectory you're thinking about for that product? And the second question, not to focus too much on Lipitor, I know we've had a lot of questions on the US, can you just discuss the erosion that you're anticipating when we think about your pretty substantial developed Europe and developed rest of world businesses for Lipitor as we look out to 2012? Thank you.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT & GM, SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC.: Yes, Chris, this is Geno. I'll speak to Xalkori, we just launched in August. We're off to a good start. While it's early in the process, we're excited by the feedback we're getting from clinicians, and we're seeing patients administer the drug on a pretty broad base across cancer centers around the United States. There's significant traffic on our websites, etcetera. So, the early indicators seem to be positive.

In terms of the testing, NCCN guidelines were updated within 2 weeks of the launch of crizotinib, recommending routine testing for ALK. There's about 140 centers, testing centers around the country that have the capability to do ALK testing, and they are being converted to the now-FDA-approved test methodology. So, we see the progress moving according to expectations, and it's early. We'll see how things go from here.

IAN READ: Olivier, do you want to comment -- thank you, Geno -- do you want to comment on Lipitor, ex US?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Yes, sure. So, we achieved about, almost $600 million in developing Europe revenues, but we're down about 16% operationally. And the main driver of the European revenue decline is in fact the LOE in Spain, which we presented around $53 million, which was driven by a combination of mandatory price reduction and also to your point, a generic volume erosion. So, the sales erosion in Spain has been much more rapid than previous LOEs in Europe, given the payor pressures in many regions of Spain.

So, we have been able to increase the volume in some countries. However, the revenue decline has also been impacted by other countries in Europe due to mandatory price reductions this year, and I'm thinking about Italy, where we have faced a 20% price reduction in January, and Ireland, which you may know, we faced an average price reduction of 35% also in January. So, again, we are growing in some country by volume. Italy, despite what I just said, actually grew volume by 8%, France and Belgium by 3% and 4%, and other smaller countries. So, that's the summary of the situation.

IAN READ: So overall, what I think Olivier is describing is that, in fact, we're taking some hits on Lipitor ahead of the LOE in '11. Overall, we expect the -- we do have pediatric patent extension in the major countries in Europe, so we're not expecting to see the LOE of Lipitor until mid-'12 in the major countries. And Japan has in fact -- the patent has expired, I believe, on Lipitor, although there's been no generic entries. We would expect a generic entry at the back end of '11 in Japan, and would expect the performance in Japan on Lipitor to be similar to what we experienced with our other products in Japan, like Norvasc, when they go LOE, which is certainly a decline, a lot more limited than Europe or any other of the developed markets. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hi, couple of questions. The $1.5 billion in SG&A that you're guiding for the reduction and going from '11 to '12, can you kind of rank order the biggest buckets of savings, or is this the sort of thing where there's no big discrete buckets, but instead, it's a smaller contraction across a very broad base of business functions? And then second question is, when can we expect Pfizer to give guidance that extends beyond 2012?

IAN READ: Please, Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: All right. So, on the first question, the way I would answer it, Tim, is there's no one big silver bullet on the SI&A. I'm on going to call it a series of numerous items, lots of blocking and tackling that cover multiple areas. Ian mentioned some in his opening remarks, relative to things we're doing to streamline the organization, which will improve our cost structure. We're looking at how we spend advertising dollars and promotion dollars. We're looking at our spend on consultants, travel and living, our systems environment and the various opportunities that we've been generating that we will continue to generate on a going-forward basis. So, there is no one single item. It's a host of items.

The other thing I should just mention in terms of our cost structure is head count. If you look at our head count this past quarter, our head count was 106,500. Beginning of the year, we were at 110,600. At the end of 2009, which was the year after we closed Wyeth, we were at 116,500. So if you go from the end of '09 to where we ended the quarter, we're down over 10,000 people. If you look at when we announced Wyeth in January of 2009, the combined companies had 130,000 people. We said we thought we could reduce the work force by 15% in about 3 years. At the end of this past quarter, we're at 18% in less than 2 years. Just to give you a feel for the rhythm of the numbers and how that drives through our cost structure. So, that's how I would answer that.

In terms of when you can expect guidance beyond 2012, obviously, our next earnings call will be early February. We'll provide an update on 2012. Beyond 2012, quite frankly, our objective is to generate consistent, steady, sustainable earnings growth over time, which we believe will create shareholder value consistently over time. And that's what we're all about doing.

IAN READ: Thanks, Frank. I would add to this expense issue that we have taken steps in the US with the LO -- upcoming LOE of Lipitor to readjust our field force. And we are also moving to readjust our infrastructure in Europe at a fast pace as we look at the Europe primary care scenario over the next few years. But more to the point, we are creating inside Pfizer a real ownership culture of the expense base, and this decision to move our expenses and get them in line with our revenue is one that the whole EOT has taken on, and I feel very confident we'll be able to manage our expenses appropriately.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Operator, please, next question.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. First, another Lipitor US question. Maximizing a brand past LOE to the extent suggested by Watson, and I think supported by your comments today, is somewhat unprecedented, so my question is, is this a bridge to an OTC strategy, or other strategy for which brand, the brand equity matters, or are you simply trying to maximize profits over a 6-month period? And secondly, for Frank, wondering why the factors that allowed you to over achieve 2011 earnings per share don't flow through to a higher outlook for 2012, or should we not read too much into your simply reaffirming 2012 yet? Thanks.

IAN READ: So on the, on the -- thanks for the question, Gregg. On the Lipitor, most of the focus is on ensuring the brand has a robust performance in the rest of '11 and the first 180 days of its loss of exclusivity. Clearly, there is an intent at some point to try and have an OTC version of Lipitor on the marketplace. I think the brand Lipitor is strong, and these actions we're taking today are not specifically directed towards strengthening any potential OTC brand in the future.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then Gregg, in terms of the '11 and '12 EPS numbers, let me run the numbers, and then I'll answer the question. So, we raised the EPS guidance this quarter for the year from $2.16 to $2.26 to $2.24 to $2.29. Next year, the EPS number is $2.25 to $2.35. So, that's earnings growth despite the fact that we have the Lipitor LOE in the US on November 30 of this year. We get the full year effect of that next year.

So, to grow earnings despite that, there's a lot that we're going to be doing next year. It's growth of some of our inline products, growth of new products, growth in emerging markets, growth in our diversified business, significantly lower SI&A and R&D expenses, continuing to leverage our balance sheet as appropriate. So, no, I don't think you all should read anything negative into the 2012 numbers. Quite frankly, I think those 2012 numbers are quite balanced, given what -- given the LOEs that we will continue to have to address on a going-forward basis.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks very much. My questions are for Mikael Dolsten.

First, Mikael, if you could please discuss the meningococcal B vaccine Phase III program. Specifically, there is a 7,500 patient trial in 11- to 25-year-olds that has safety as the primary end point. Could you discuss the safety issues you're scrutinizing? And also, what's your target age population for commercialization? And then, my next question is a little bit broader. Just hoping to get your perspective on the key clinical trial results to focus on in 2012 for Pfizer and what you're most optimistic about seeing. Thank you.

IAN READ: Okay, Mikael, if you could take those questions.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Yes, so thank you for your interest in the meningococcal vaccine. We previously have reported that we have a vaccine based on 2 unique structures that we have isolated, and we show it in the Phase II studies, a very good indicator of our ability in the adolescent population. I have previously stated that it looks like it's performing very well when it comes to immunogenicity versus competitor studies in infants using mening B as the target vaccine. We have, as Ian commented in his introduction, started certain studies of the registration package while we are in the final phase of discussing with the FDA concerning the surrogate end point and trial design for the larger pivotal Phase III studies. We remain encouraged about the importance of the mening B vaccine to provide effective prevention for a fatal disease and we think we have a strong data package so far and good plans moving forward.

IAN READ: Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: The second part of the question, is 2012, things we're looking forward to. Next wave.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes, speaking about the pipeline, and I think Ian shared with you our enthusiasm for the late registration pipeline and the 6 particular drugs moving forward towards registration or to the market. In one of our 5 core areas, we have a very robust portfolio. And I'll just give you a couple of highlights. Oncology, beyond axitinib, we have first in class inotuzumab for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with an opportunity to expand in traditional b-cell malignancies. Dacomitinib has been reported previously for proof of concept is now in Phase III, and we have also some very intriguing best in class [Mtopia 3K] drugs, an area which has shown a very interesting efficacy in select breast cancer segments. In immune inflammation, you've heard that we expand tofacitinib into ulcerous colitis, due to encouraging data so far into Phase III studies we're moving now, and also, we'll assess optimal use of tofacitinib in Crohn's in Phase II.

We have also first in class MAdCAM antibody and best in class [IL6] antibodies for IBD and several other programs, which we've also opened into new areas of immune inflammation, such as lupus. CV med, beyond Eliquis and our excitement for a (inaudible) stroke, we have important clinical data for our PCSK9, and we're moving that antibody forward in Phase II. We have received also a good clinical science for unique glucokinase activators and novel PD5 inhibitors for diabetic nephropathy. In the vaccine area, you are aware that beyond mening B we have a Staph Aureus program that we think is industry-leading in its profile, and we have a combined Phase I and II study ongoing. And neuroscience pain, bapineuzumab with our partners is moving forward. We have additional novel entries in the pipeline for PDE2 inhibitor for cognitive impairment and also a base program. And also in the pain area, we are moving a nice compound effort in the nav 1.7 space, which is a high-profile target for the industry.

These are our 5 core areas, but it's a broad pipeline, where exciting assets also in niche areas including wet and dry IMD, and I hope this gave you a kind of perspective of a balanced, robust pipeline coming behind the major programs that Ian introduced you to.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael. I believe on the mening B, our main focus is on adolescents, which are the carriers in that population, so that's extremely important, and that's a differentiation vis-a-vis Novartis, which is more in pediatric. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Next question, operator?

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I have three questions, all related to alliance revenue. First, can you please tell us the months when the Spiriva co-promote ends in key EU markets during 2012 and '13, and in what months in 2014 does it expire in the US and Japan? Secondly, what is the origin of the dispute with Merck Serono over whether Rebif co-promote terminates in 2013 or '15? Is it simply vague language in the contract, or is it something else? Then the third question is, is there any chance to extend the co-promotes for either Spiriva or Enbrel, or should we assume there's no chance of that? Thank you.

IAN READ: Olivier, would you like to take the first question?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Yes. On the Spiriva question, we have 10 years contract with BI, and determination date, in fact, defers country by country, because it is calculated from the launch date in each country. So what you're going to see is a graduated decline in revenue during the year 10 of the contract for all countries, with no additional revenue beginning in year 11. In Europe we are beginning contract exits in 2012 and '13, and you mentioned the US and Japan, and the contract exit there is actually planned for 2014. And the last countries will exit the contracts in 2016.

And to answer the second part of your question on Spiriva, I think you have to assume that there is no continuation of the contract behind 2016.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier. Amy, would you like to answer the question on Rebif?

AMY SCHULMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL & BUSINESS UNIT LEAD, NUTRITIONALS, PFIZER INC.: With respect to Rebif, as you know, Serono filed a lawsuit in Philadelphia contesting the terms of the contract. We were very pleased that the court agreed with our interpretation, and other than that, giving the pendency of the litigation, I don't think we should comment on the contract terms.

IAN READ: Thank you. I think that was the Enbrel question. Geno?

GENO GERMANO: Yes, the Enbrel partnership with Amgen's been a very, very successful partnership, and the term expires in October of 2013. We have no current plans to extend that partnership.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And we have 13 months immediately thereafter where we receive a royalty, although it's obviously less than --

GENO GERMANO: 3-year tail.

FRANK D'AMELIO: 3-year tail. 36 months, right.

IAN READ: Thank you very much.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, and thanks very much. The questions are two, and they are around Prevnar and animal health. The first is on an international basis, strong quarter-to-quarter growth. Could you comment on tenders which may have been won? And then second, as we think about and try to frame the adult indication next year without the results of the CAPITA trial, how should we think about that adult indication rolling out? Will it be initially slow? And moreover, when CAPITA reads out, even before a label change, would you not assume that the uptake would become very -- relatively quick, because that information would clearly be unique, extraordinarily unique to a pneumococcal vaccine?

And then my second question on animal health is, if you take out the King assets, the US growth would actually be down. Is there something fundamentally in the US with respect to animal health, given the very strong demand ex US? Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Geno, could you take the Prevnar, please?

GENO GERMANO: Sure. On the quarter, strong international results. Actually, we were up 21% for the quarter, and international was up even more. Most of the gain has come from continued penetration of the Japanese market, with Prevnar 7, the Turkey NIP that began this year, and we've initiated distribution in the GAVI countries. We won back 2 key provinces in Canada. We have the South African NIP. Then about, then about 3 or 4 other important NIPs, but it's broadly spread across, really around, across the world.

And then I think the question on Prevnar 13 adult uptake with the approval in Europe, the first step is to secure pricing and to roll out the introduction of the adult indication throughout Europe. We were particularly pleased to see the regulators in Europe recognize the preferable positioning of the 13 valent conjugate vaccine ahead of the use of the use of polysaccharide vaccine, and we think that will be an important part of the labeling and the positioning of the product in European countries. And once the capita trial data are available, assuming they are positive, we think that they will be well recognized in the infectious disease community, and we will work quickly with regulators to incorporate that information into the labels across Europe.

IAN READ: And regards animal health, animal health was up, I think you just said 15% operationally. 10% was due to King and 5% was due to legacy Pfizer, and I believe, in fact, the US was not down, but very slightly up when you extract King. So overall, there's no particular reason for any concerns about the business in the US. It continues to be strong and progressing along the lines we expect.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Thanks very much. You even got my name right. Three quick questions.

Maybe, if you guys can comment on the very strong performance of the nutritionals business. Anything specific to the strong third quarter versus the slower first half? Second, maybe for Ian, and can you just give us how we should think about the restructuring of animal health and nutri, the use of proceeds as you kind of think about it. Historically, you've commented on that as the stock in sort of the rite of first passage, as well as the influence of tax on the strategic decisions there. And then lastly, for Mikael, on bapineuzumab, can you just update us on when we should expect to actually see the first data reported out from the venture with Johnson & Johnson and Delon, and if there is any chance that subgroups such as prodromal patients or early AD patients could be used to allow approval. Thanks a lot.

IAN READ: So, the first question was on the --

AMY SCHULMAN: Strong nutri performance.

IAN READ: Strong nutri performance. If you would like to answer that, please.

AMY SCHULMAN: Sure. Thank you. This quarter's performance is indeed a demonstration of the focus and the commitment that our nutritional colleagues have shown around the world. And I think a few things contributed to the very strong operational growth we had. The first is strong performance in some of our key geographies including Africa/Middle East and China, greater demand in the market for some of our premium and super-premium products. We launched Illuma in China, and the reformulated premium gold line. And then throughout the Pfizer nutrition key markets, we had a number of other product launches. So I think the -- those 3 factors really contributed, along with the focus of our work force, on the strong quarter we had.

IAN READ: Thank you, Amy. And certainly the management of that BU and the focus of the BU has brought to bear has been instrumental in these very good results. Regarding the disposal and the restructuring, we look at the monetization of both nutritional animal health on an after-tax basis. We need to maximize the after-tax value of that, and the proceeds that we get from that, as you have said, and as I've said before, the case to beat is share repurchase. Clearly, we would like to do, and we look, we continue to look for bolt-on acquisitions of high quality assets that would accelerate top line growth, but those acquisitions have to beat the base case of a buyback of shares and the impact that has on the Company. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Boris from Citi.

IAN READ: Before we go to that, actually, we'll answer the question about the bapineuzumab. I apologize, John. Give us a second.

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: Yes, on bapineuzumab there is actually no new news. You may remember last year J&J announced through Janssen and AI North American study would be completed by mid-2012, and there is no change to that schedule. And the 2 international studies, which Pfizer is responsible for, study 3000, 3001 continue to enroll, and we'll be reporting in 2014. Now, regarding specifically the prodromal aspect, we are discussing that within the alliance, but there is nothing to report at this point.

IAN READ: Thank you, Olivier. So back to John. Sorry for making you wait, John. Are you on?

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Can you hear me?

IAN READ: Yes, we hear you, John.

JOHN BORIS: Okay, great. Thanks for taking the questions, and again, congratulations on the results.

Ian, when you first had taken over, you had indicated you were going to be spending a lot of time with Mikael Dolsten on R&D productivity. We've seen quite a few press releases come across on that front. Can you maybe just help us understand the progress that you've made to date, what additional things you have to do incrementally to improve productivity and what metrics are you using to grade yourself on whether you're improving that productivity? And then I have a follow-up question for Olivier.

IAN READ: Okay. Do you want to give us the Olivier question now, John?

JOHN BORIS: Sure. Olivier, you articulated that pricing in some of the markets like Italy, Ireland down [20%], down [35%]. In France, in particular, there have certainly been rumblings about price cuts also in the French market. Just any thoughts on what the impact on pricing could be out of that market?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: I can't answer that question quickly. Given the macroeconomic condition, to your point, you obviously have been experiencing increased pricing pressures in several countries, including the one I just mentioned. So in the past, we have experienced about 2% to 3% annual price decline in Europe, and we are now experiencing a mid single-digit price decline, which we believe we will continue throughout this year and certainly for the foreseeable future. So we continue to monitor the situation very, very closely and I think that's it.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And if I can just add to that, that's the assumption that we've made, not only for the remainder of 2011 in our guidance, but also through the 2012 financial targets, which is mid single-digit pricing pressure continues in developed Europe.

IAN READ: John, thank you for the question on research.

It's one of the, I believe, most important things we have to focus on the next 2 to 3, 4 years. Very happy working with Mikael Dolsten in partnership on this. I'll ask him to make specific comments, but yes, we do have series of metrics that are important that we're measuring. We are measuring the R&D team. We are measuring them with the Board.

I'm excited about our ability to move some of our research into biomedical hubs like Boston, Massachusetts, and Cambridge and La Jolla. I'm excited about the culture change I see in research as we appropriately balance both the pursuit of science and the need to make unstoppable products, not shots on goal, but products we consider unstoppable in the development process. And the culture is one of ownership, and we've in fact moved recently, and this was part of what I was trying to do, we've moved the compensation for the research community away from totally Pfizer, Inc., and 50% of their long-term compensation will now be tied to specific performance metrics inside that organization. So, I think it really brings about a focus inside the research organization that ties the long-term compensation to their productivity in a very specific way. Mikael, do you want to comment on some of the progress we've been making?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Yes. Let me shed further light on this. I think Ian's engagement to spend some of his time with me at the site discuss the intersection of business and product development and science I think has been of instrumental importance in building this new ownership culture and really move Pfizer into a kind of a industry-leading position in addressing the challenges of this industry to drive productivity to a new return of investment level. So let me just set 3 examples of progress, increased pipeline focus. We decided to really put 80% or more of our resources on the 5 core areas that we, where we have experienced the strengths and where we're seeing good balance between commercial and scientific opportunities. And you heard previously, I mentioned some significant advances in our pipeline here.

Differentiated approaches, a second part here. We have been moving our biomedical key expertise into leading hubs. We are now established with a real exciting pain unit in Cambridge UK. We acquired Icagen, a leading ion channel group in North Carolina, and we are bringing that together with Cambridge UK group to 1 really strong group as we move forward, union integration phase. In Massachusetts, Cambridge US, we have now moved our CV med group, and they are growing the pipeline, building the right type of new partnership, and I think that has been a very fast pace of change.

Increased externalization, we have announced a relationship with ICON and Parexel to create a more flexible way of doing R&D. And we'll also have across the business units and R&D expanded our pipeline reach with numerous biotech operations to grow the pre-[fork] and post-fork opportunities. The metrics we are using are obviously some example of increasing value in pipeline the number of new book studies for Phase III submission and approval, but we would also put a lot of emphasis on the quality, not only on the numbers, when it comes to the clinical differentiation, how it translates to strong labor, and how it fulfills customer needs on the market. And I think this new mix of science and business has really moved it forward.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael.

CHUCK TRIANO: And we'll have time for one last question, operator.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Barbara Ryan from Deutsche Bank.

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you for taking my questions. I have two. I know you did run through some detail on the emerging markets. And I'm just wondering if you could tell us what your operational and reported growth in China was, and the size of the business. And then I have a second on Lipitor, if you don't mind. Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay. David?

DAVID SIMMONS, PRESIDENT & GM, EMERGING MARKETS AND ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER INC.: For China, our -- for the quarter, our reported growth was 31%, our operational growth, 26%. On a year-to-date basis, report is 23% for China, growth in the third quarter of 20% year to date. Also adding in on China, we maintained the number 1 rank in the market in China of all multinationals and local Chinese companies, and our growth rate is outpacing the underlying growth. So China's a big anchor point for us in emerging markets, and we're doing very well there.

IAN READ: And those gross were actually over price cuts, I believe.

DAVID SIMMONS: Yes. We do experience a dynamic environment in emerging markets, quarter on quarter, as you can see in our numbers. This year we have experienced price decreases -- pretty significant price decreases in China, Turkey and some other markets. But as we see it's consistent in these markets, we see volume expansion often when these occur. That certainly was the case in both China and Turkey.

IAN READ: Okay, Barbara, your last question on Lipitor? Or did we lose her?

CHUCK TRIANO: We may have lost her.

Okay. We can follow up with you off line, Barbara.

That will conclude the call, everybody. Thanks for your time and attention this morning.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in the Pfizer third quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111115e7b1003bj
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,528 words
   PD
2 August 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP - IR, PFIZER, INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you all for joining us today to review Pfizer's second quarter 2011 performance. I'm here with our CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for Nutritionals; and David Simmons, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.

The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance, second quarter 2011, located in the investor presentations section in the lower right-hand of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Also the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on form 8-K dated today, August 2, 2011.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Ian Read.

IAN READ, PRESIDENT AND CEO, PFIZER, INC.: Thanks, Chuck, good morning, everyone. During my remarks this morning, I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter, touch on the announcement we made last month concerning our strategic portfolio review, highlight some of the progress we're making in our late-stage product portfolio and growing mid-stage pipeline and speak to some examples of the progress and positive changes we're making in executing our R&D strategy.

Our results for the quarter are in line with our expectations and demonstrate that our business can remain resilient despite current macroeconomic challenges and the impact of loss of exclusivity of several products. While revenues were down slightly year-over-year, I would note that during the quarter we absorbed a revenue impact of approximately $1.7 billion, mainly due to LOEs in the US, Europe and Canada and several emerging markets, in addition to US healthcare reform.

Without these downward pressures, revenue would have been slightly up for the quarter. Although these losses of exclusivity have a dampening impact on the year-over-year growth comparisons, our prospects to launch innovative products and for earnings per share growth remains strong. Frank will take you through the details of the quarter, but here are a few of the noteworthy highlights.

Core patent-protected growth drivers, such as Lyrica, Enbrel, the Prevnar franchise and Sutent continue to perform well in many geographies. Emerging Markets business experienced losses of exclusivity of Lipitor in Brazil and Mexico and Viagra in Brazil and still delivered revenue growth, both overall and operationally. We saw growth in key innovative brands, primarily Enbrel, Prevnar franchise, Lyrica and Vfend, and strong overall performance in key countries such as China, Turkey and India. Volume overall within our Emerging Markets business increased 12% if we remove the impact from the LOEs.

Despite quarter-to-quarter volatility we continue to expect improving performance in Emerging Markets, reflecting strong performance from our core innovative products, as well as improvement within the Established Products portfolio as partnerships such as the ones we have with Teuto in Brazil result in new product launches.

For the first time, our Animal Health business achieved a significant milestone, delivering $1 billion in quarterly revenues. The Consumer Healthcare business reported solid revenue growth, primarily driven by Robitussin, Advil Congestion Relief and a strong cough and cold season. We also just completed the sale of Capsugel.

We continue to improve the efficiency of the business through existing and newly identified process improvements and cost reduction initiatives, particularly in the work we are doing to improve R&D productivity. And we remain focused on taking actions to increase shareholder value. So far this year through August 1, we have returned approximately $7.5 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

Early last month we shared with you the results of the portfolio review process we undertook that will shape and focus the direction of the Company over the next one to two years. We determined that the best path for maximizing shareholder value is to explore strategic alternatives for our Animal Health and Nutritional business. We will do this by assessing several options and pursuing the pathways for each of these businesses that delivers the greatest after-tax return for shareholders.

Given the types of alternatives we are considering, we anticipate determining the path we will pursue for Animal Health and Nutritionals sometime in 2012 and continue to expect that it will take 12 to 24 months from when we announced our decision to fully complete the potential separation of these businesses.

Based on this review, we will also determine that we can enhance the value of our Established Products and Consumer Healthcare businesses by having them remain within Pfizer. Established Products is an important pillar of our growth strategy and is well positioned to capture the opportunities being created by the demographic trends and rising economic power within the emerging markets. For the Consumer Health business we see an opportunity to potentially extend the value of some pharmaceutical assets and are currently evaluating the possibility of RX to OTC switches of some products in our portfolio. This is an area where we currently allocate resources and believe we can generate attractive returns on investment capital.

While our portfolio review has been a focal point for the Company, we have made some important strides in the work we have underway to strengthen our innovative core. I anticipate that over the next 12 to 24 months we will have the potential to launch several new products from among assets currently in our late-stage portfolio -- Axitinib, Bosutinib, crizotinib, ELIQUIS, Prevnar 13 and Tofacitinib.

During the second quarter we achieved several milestones. I'll start with momentum during the quarter within our oncology pipeline. Our new drug application for crizotinib, whose trade name will be [Zalcori], has been filed and accepted and is now under priority review with the FDA. This medicine is an example of a new era of precision medicine.

The EMEA and FDA accepted our filing for Axitinib for previously treated patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. Sutent received FDA approval as a treatment for individuals with advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. We began Phase 3 study enrollments for dacomitinib, our oral pan-HER inhibitor being investigated for advanced non-small cell lung cancer, and Inotuzumab, our antibody drug conjugate being investigated for aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

A few words about tofacitinib -- during the second quarter we presented detailed results of the ORAL Sync study at EULAR in London. This study, evaluating tofacitinib with background DMARD therapy, met all primary efficacy endpoints by showing statistically significant changes versus placebo in reducing signs and symptoms and improving physical function in patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis with results seen as early as two weeks. These findings are consistent with previously reported results for oral solo that showed tofacitinib monotherapy provided significant and clinically meaningful improvement in signs and symptoms of RA and physical function, also within two weeks of treatment.

We have now completed the Phase 3 program for tofacitinib in rheumatoid arthritis, and we hope to present information from the other three pivotal Phase 3 studies, ORAL Step, ORAL Stand and ORAL Scan, at the American College of Rheumatology annual conference in November. We remain encouraged with the results we have seen in the profile of the drug and continue to expect to file in both the US and the EU by the end of this year.

Also, by the end of this year in the EU and by early next year in the US we expect to receive regulatory action on our filings of Prevnar 13 for the prevention of pneumococcal disease in adults age 50 and older.

Regarding Eliquis, we are very excited about the initial results for Phase 3 ARISTOTLE study in patients with atrial fibrillation, which indicate that Eliquis met its primary endpoints and key secondary endpoints. We believe these results can support a strong competitive profile for the drug. With our partner, Bristol-Myers Squib, we expect to submit regulatory filings in atrial fibrillation in the US and EU in the third or fourth quarter of this year.

The European Commission already approved Eliquis within the EU for the prevention of venous thrombotic events in adult patients who have undergone selective hip or knee replacement surgery.

Pain remains an important strategic disease area for Pfizer. During the quarter we announced with Acura Pharmaceuticals that Oxecta received marketing approval from the FDA for the management of acute and chronic moderate to severe pain where the use of an opioid analgesic is appropriate.

Regarding Remoxy, on last quarter's call I told you we were working through a specific issue in the manufacturing section of the NDA. In June, we announced that we and Pain Therapeutics received a complete response letter from the FDA indicating there are still unresolved issues primarily related to manufacturing. We remain engaged in working through these issues and have been generating additional manufacturing data that will serve as the basis to engage in further discussions with the FDA. We are working diligently towards a satisfactory resolution.

Overall, I believe our late-stage pipeline is as strong as it has been for several years and I'm encouraged by some of the developments in our mid-stage pipeline.

During this quarter we have seen positive movements with the advancement of compounds in Phase 2 for diabetes, hypocholesterolemia, and we are encouraged with an expanding portfolio of anti-inflammatory drugs, including novel biologic programs in inflammatory bowel disease.

We also initiated a Phase 1-2 study for Staph aureus vaccine, which is a prophylactic vaccine containing four distinct antigens.

You have heard me say that I fundamentally believe in the power of innovation in pharmaceuticals. To be successful over time and to deliver on the promise of our pipeline products, we must improve the rigor of our approach. I believe we are doing just that with swift implementation of the structural changes and partnerships we announced earlier this year to help strengthen our innovative core and deliver the innovations that matter most.

Specifically, during the quarter we took several steps to further focus our resources and develop additional innovative external relationships. Notably, we prioritized the pre-proof of concept portfolio, terminating over 90 programs that we felt outside our priority disease area or were not scientifically or commercially attractive. We launched a Center for Therapeutic Innovation in Boston with eight academic medical centers. This follows previously announced partnerships with academic medical institutions in California and New York.

We announced new strategic partnerships with Icon and Parexel for clinical trial implementation services, finalized our go-forward operating model for pharmaceutical sciences, and we are advancing our precision medicine strategy. And we now have precision medicine approaches active in every research unit. Over the next five years we expect that most of our Phase 3 starts will reflect a precision medicine approach that is expected to deliver a more dramatic treatment effect for patients and make the value of treatment easier to demonstrate to payers.

In summary, I'm pleased with the progress we have made and the direction we have set for the Company. Our colleagues are motivated and engaged in the successful execution of the initiatives we have underway to focus Pfizer and have a greater sense of ownership of these initiatives. We are delivering on the work we have underway to improve the performance of the innovative core and allocate resources in ways that best maximize value for shareholders.

Now I will turn it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO, EVP, CFO AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS, PFIZER, INC.: Thanks, Ian, good day, everyone. As always, the charts on reviewing today are included in our webcast.

Now let's move on to the results. Revenues of about $17 billion decreased 1% quarter over quarter. However, as Ian previously mentioned, this quarter we absorbed approximately $1.7 billion or 10% revenue declines due to the loss of exclusivity of certain products in the US, Europe, Canada and several key emerging markets, which reduced revenues by about $1.5 billion or 9%; and US healthcare reform legislation, which reduced revenues by $158 million or 1%.

These declines were partially offset by $740 million or 4% from foreign exchange, $357 million or 2% from the addition of legacy King products, and growth in key in-line products such as the Prevnar franchise, Lyrica, Enbrel and Sutent, among others. Reported diluted EPS increased 6% year-over-year to $0.33, which was driven by growth in the key in-line products I just mentioned, the addition of legacy King operations, lower acquisition-related cost and purchase accounting adjustments and the lower effective tax rate, which were partially offset by the LOE of certain products and expenses incurred for cost reduction and productivity initiatives.

Second quarter 2011 adjusted cost of sales increased 15% or approximately $400 million versus the prior-year quarter, due primarily to the negative impact of foreign exchange, which increased adjusted cost of sales by $460 million or 16%, the addition of legacy King operations and a shift in product and business mix. Consequently, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue increased year-over-year to 19.2% from 16.6%.

However, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 17.2%. Adjusted total cost increased 6%, driven primarily by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $681 million or 7% and the addition of legacy King operations. These were partially offset by the positive impact of savings from our cost reduction and productivity initiatives, especially in R&D.

I want to point out that, excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, cost and expenses associated with the addition of King operations, US healthcare reform and the Puerto Rico excise tax, adjusted total cost in the second quarter decreased $450 million or about 5% year-over-year.

Finally, adjusted diluted EPS was $0.60 per share versus $0.61 in the year-ago quarter, representing a 2% decrease. Adjusted diluted EPS was favorably impacted by growth in certain products, the addition of legacy King operations, low R&D expenses and a lower effective tax rate, which were more than offset by the negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of certain products, a shift in product and business mix and increased SI&A expenses, including the impact of US healthcare reform.

In second quarter 2011, foreign exchange positively impacted revenues by $740 million or 4% and negatively impacted adjusted total cost by $681 million or 7%. As a result, foreign exchange favorably impacted adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01.

I want to point out again that, in the second quarter, we continued to absorb revenue declines of approximately $1.5 billion as a result of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies. Specifically within the Biopharmaceutical business, the year-over-year operational performance reflects the loss of exclusivity of certain products, including Lipitor in Spain and Canada and Aricept in the US, all of which occurred in 2010 and negatively impacted primary care revenues; Vfend and Xalatanin the US in 2011, which negatively impacted specialty care revenues, Aromasin in the US in 2011, which negatively impacted oncology revenues; Lipitor in Brazil and Mexico and Viagra in Brazil, both of which occurred in 2010 and negatively impacted Emerging Markets revenues; and Effexor, Protonix and ZOSYN, which negatively impacted Established Products revenues.

The Animal Health business for the first time this quarter achieved revenues of more than $1 billion, which reflected the year-over-year increase of 13% operationally, driven by the addition of legacy King products and the performance of legacy Pfizer Animal Health products. Second quarter 2011 revenues generated from both Biopharmaceutical and other businesses in emerging markets increased 10% year-over-year, and Biopharmaceutical revenues grew 3% operationally in those markets. It's important to note that, over the same period, Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico and Turkey contributed a combined 56% of the overall growth in emerging markets.

In addition, Biopharma sales in China, Turkey and India grew year-over-year by approximately 15%, 25% and 15%, respectively. And revenues from the Biopharmaceutical businesses grew 5% operationally in the BRIC/MT markets to approximately $1.1 billion. In addition, year-to-date Biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC/MT markets increased 8% operationally to about $2.1 billion.

Finally, worldwide revenues generated by sales in Emerging Markets totaled more than $3.3 billion in the second quarter, despite the flat year-over-year revenues in Established Products, which reflected volume increases offset by price decreases in certain markets. Given our continued confidence in our business, we are reaffirming all elements of our 2011 financial guidance. It's important to note that our 2011 guidance on reported results does not include the estimated gain from the sale of Capsugel to KKR, given that the transaction was completed yesterday.

We continue to expect to redeploy the after-tax proceeds from the sale of Capsugel into share repurchases and/or other opportunities that are expected to meet or exceed the return on investment of share repurchases. We are also reaffirming all elements of our 2012 financial targets.

So, finally, moving onto key takeaways, we continue to deliver operational performance in line with our expectations while absorbing the impact of the loss of exclusivity of several products in both the US and other markets. We are reaffirming all elements of 2011 financial guidance and 2012 financial targets, given our continued confidence in the business. We have completed our portfolio review and, as a result of that review, we are exploring strategic alternatives for our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses that will deliver the greatest after-tax return for our shareholders. We remain focused on improving the performance of our innovative core and have made significant advances in our late-stage pipeline. We continue to anticipate repurchasing $5 billion to $7 billion of our shares in 2011. In fact, during the second quarter we repurchased $2.2 billion or 109.2 million shares, and to date we have repurchased a total of $4.3 billion or 213.7 million shares.

Now I will turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank, and at this point, operator, if you could please poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Ian, a question for you -- so we have had first-half earnings, Pfizer came in in line if not slightly better than analyst projections. I'm just wondering why you are not taking the opportunity to raise the bottom end of your projections for the year. I'm just wondering what you are trying to signal, if anything, about the second half.

And my second question relates to the strategic announcement you made a few weeks ago about spinning or selling Animal Health and Nutritional. Just wondering what your strategic plans are for Consumer and Established Products and how you plan to unlock value of those two assets internally now that the decision is to keep those assets inside Pfizer versus spinning or selling those businesses, as you are with the other two assets. And just, please, if you could remind us what your plans are to do with the proceeds of Animal Health and Nutritionals. Thanks.

IAN READ: I'll ask Frank to take the guidance question, and then answer the questions on Consumer and EP.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on guidance, Jami, to your specific question -- we're not trying to signal anything. From my perspective, there's several factors we have incorporated. So first, obviously, there's the Lipitor LOE that -- November 30 in the US of this year. There's some favorable one-time items that took place in the first half of the year that we don't expect to take place in the second half of the year, like the favorable legal settlement that positively impacted Q2 results.

Let me just kind of drive this home with the other income and deduct line. If you look for the quarter, other deducts was $13 million. If you look at year-to-date it was $191 million. And yet our guidance says approximately $1 billion for the year. The reason for that is, we don't expect those favorable items to reoccur in the second half of the year. If you look at our net interest expense on a quarter-to-quarter basis, it's about $325 million a quarter. So for the second half of the year, that's $650 million. And there's potentially one or two unfavorable items that could occur in the second half of the year, which gets you to the $1 billion.

Then there's the seasonality of our operational expense spending. If you look at the Company over the last couple of years, typically we take a kind of an increase in Q4. And then, if you just take all that I look at last year's EPS in terms of the rhythm of the numbers, last year we did $2.21, $0.60 in Q1, $0.61 in Q2, so $1.21 for the first half of the year; $0.54 in Q3, $0.46 in Q4. So it was more biased towards the first half of the year.

So when we factor all that in, we think it's prudent to reiterate our guidance for the year. And quite frankly, we are confident in our ability to meet that guidance.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank. So, Jami, I'll do the proceeds one first. Well, all our cash flows, including the proceeds, we deploy to try and maximize the return to shareholders. And while we look at all opportunities, the case to beat still remains to be share buybacks. So we are active. We look for bolt-ons, but we compare it to share buybacks as the parameter.

Now, on EP and Consumer, as you say, we have elected to keep them in Pfizer. We see them as good businesses. In fact, we see all the businesses we have as good businesses, including Animal Health and Nutritional. But we believe that we can add incremental value to consumer and EP, staying in Pfizer. EP is important to our cash flows. It's important to our presence in emerging markets and our ability to participate in the rising economic power in the emerging markets.

We will continue to be focused on country-specific or regional issues. I see us continuing to do things like we did with Teuto in Brazil or the type of partnerships we are doing with Hisun in China, a very focused -- as healthcare is local -- a focused approach to building our portfolio in those countries.

With Consumer -- it's a very good business. We have opportunities of switching some of our pharmaceutical products from RX to OTC, and we will continue to invest in those brands that are very long-lived and generate organic growth that way. Thank you for the question.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: The first question just has to do with Lipitor loss of exclusivity in the back half. Just your thoughts around what your assumptions are, whether Ranbaxy is in the market or not in the market and whether you might be able to retain a higher share via PBMs of your branded product.

Also, in the UK, I think Teva launched at risk there. Any thoughts on what the impact could be in the upcoming quarter?

And then the last question just has to do with Eliquis. Is it just possible to get an update? I think you are doing some of the formulation work on moving from a BID to a once-daily formulation. Can we just get an update on timing of that?

IAN READ: Thank you, John. So I'll ask if Olivier could handle the Lipitor loss of exclusivity questions and Eliquis, and then Amy Schulman will answer the UK Teva situation. Olivier, please?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, PRESIDENT & GM, PRIMARY CARE, PFIZER, INC.: So, based on everything we know, we now believe -- we continue to plan for two generic atorvastatin products to be in the market following LOE on November 30. We expect that Watson will introduce its product at that date via its authorized generic supply agreement with Pfizer, and we assume Ranbaxy will be in the market as well.

AMY SCHULMAN, EVP, GENERAL COUNSEL AND BUSINESS UNIT LEAD NUTRITIONALS, PFIZER, INC.: With respect to the situation in the UK, you are absolutely correct. And as soon as we learned that Teva had entered the market, we sued immediately. We obtained a preliminary injunction. And right now Teva and the three major wholesalers have submitted to that injunction. So I think we have that situation well in hand.

IAN READ: And Eliquis?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: On Eliquis, John, I know that we are looking into QD dosage. But, for now they are all packaged, and, we would submit, is in BID, as you know.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning and thank you, two questions -- the first is around Prevnar 7 and 13, both in the US and internationally. Could you comment on wholesaler inventories and buying patterns that seem to be occurring there in this particular quarter that we haven't seen in the past?

And the second question, for Frank, just housekeeping, please -- around your '11 and '12 guidance with respect to R&D spend, which we do know is down, would that be an abrupt change, Frank, or is that more of a scale, or can you give us some color or comment around pacing of that decline?

IAN READ: Thank you, Tony. Geno, could you take the Prevnar 7 and 13 question?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT & GM, SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER, INC.: Sure. So for Prevnar in the second quarter, particularly in the US we saw a little bit of softening in buying as a result primarily of inventory builds in the first quarter ahead of the price increases we put in place in April. And that build has stabilized now and normalized, and we are within the range of normal inventories. McKesson to drop their inventory a little bit in the second quarter in the public sector, but, again, still remains within range.

And then, when you compare second quarter '11 to second quarter '10, the anomaly there is explained by the increase in buying in the second quarter of '10, coincident with the launch of the 13 Valent product.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then, on the R&D question, so just to run the numbers, we said this year $8 billion to $8.5 billion, and then we said next year $6.5 billion to $7 billion. In terms of the rhythm of that, I view that as kind of steady progress. We will make steady progress as we work our way through that, and obviously one of the areas we will be getting that out of is the non-priority disease areas, or kind of the lower productivity areas that we've had. So that's how we will go about doing that.

OPERATOR: David Maris, CLSA.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, CLSA ASIA PACIFIC MARKETS: A few questions -- first, Ian, what do you think the Express Scripts/Medco deal means to Pfizer and the industry? And, do you think it's symptomatic of something else? Second, how do you think the sales force changes over the next year with the expiry of Lipitor, and then the launch of what could be Eliquis, but -- as a number of other products?

And then, on the pipeline, I don't know if you would have this offhand. But if things go as well as you expect, how many of the Phase 2 programs do you expect to be in Phase 3 next year?

IAN READ: Thank you, David -- so Express Scripts -- I really think it's too early to tell. We don't have any details of the merger, how it will be completed, if it will be completed. So I think we need to wait on that analysis. It's clearly, obviously, just symptomatic of consolidation in that area of healthcare.

Field force changes -- we have -- I may ask Olivier to expand on this. But we've structured our field force in a way that we can make changes for the LOEs that are coming and the new products that are coming in. So I don't expect any material disruption to our field force over this period and, in fact, think we have good morale in our field force right now. Olivier, do you want to add anything to that?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: I would just add that we are planning, in fact, for the Lipitor LOEs, at the portfolio on a brand level, for several years. So the Pfizer field force organization in the US is now appropriately sized to support the broader primary care portfolio over the coming years. We have 10 assets being promoted next year and afterwards, hopefully including Eliquis.

So the attention of our representative assigned to detail Lipitor today will shift to other assets at the appropriate time.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER, INC.: And concerning the Phase 2 pipeline, so we haven't given an exact number of Phase 3 progression, but I will just share with you some of the excitements we have here.

We have a novel anti-inflammatory drug such as antibodies for med chem and best-in-class IL-6 antibodies for lupus or inflammatory bowel disease. We have novel small molecules addressing glucokinase, an area where we are leading with both liver-selective and pancreas-active compounds.

We have very exciting antibodies to lower cholesterol, like the PCSK9 mechanism. We are expanding indications with several of our oncology projects, such as Inotuzumab, into additional hematological malignancies and also Crizotinib into drug combinations. And we have -- are advancing very exciting anti-P13K and anti-mTOR molecules that we think have very broad activity against many solid tumors.

And as you are aware, we are also expanding the vaccine pipeline. We now are in the phase of starting the Staph aureus vaccine, which we think have a unique profile with four different vaccine components. And finally, when it comes to the neuroscience pain pipeline, you know we have taken initiatives to broaden that with activities such as the sodium channel product Nav1.7 in our collaboration and recent acquisition of Icagen; novel drugs for treatment-resistant depression, alpha4beta2, as well as antibodies for retinal diseases.

So you hear it's a rich pipeline of novel mechanism and expansion of existing drugs. And you will hear more in the next year about which ones deliver proof of concept and into Phase 3.

IAN READ: Thank you, Mikael; that was a good list you gave, thank you.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: A couple of specific questions -- could you talk about Prevnar, growth in the emerging markets? It looks strong, and I'm wondering if there's a specific region or there's any change in terms of guidelines from that region that would have driven that growth. Can you give us a specific action date for Crizotinib? And then, lastly, assuming you're filing for Tofa goes in later this year, as you imply, what will be the scale of the safety database that will be available around the time you would expect approval with a standard review in terms of patient exposure and duration of exposure to that drug?

IAN READ: Thanks, Catherine. So, David, could you take the Prevnar and Emerging Markets question? Then I will ask Geno to answer the Crizotinib or Tofacitinib.

DAVID SIMMONS, PRESIDENT & GM, EMERGING MARKETS AND ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER, INC.: So related to Prevnar in Emerging Markets, there has been a lot of good progress in the past year, particularly the past six months, with an NIP success in Turkey, which is the main driver of Turkey's growth at 25% year-to-date, as well as increased volume of sales through the GAVI program, as well as winning some NIPs and tenders in Latin America, in particular, which has been a gain from a position where we were at the end of last year. So Prevnar is going very, very well in Emerging Markets, and we expect to continue this pace of progress.

One other comment on the specialty area overall in Emerging Markets is ENBREL has been a very strong driver of our Emerging Market success year-to-date.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno?

GENO GERMANO: Action date on Crizotinib -- we expect to have action by the end of the year with Crizotinib, and with Tofacitinib our plan is to file in both the US and Europe by the end of this year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Great, thanks, Geno, next question, please?

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: A few questions -- if I can go back to the completion of the business review, I think the impression that many had from when you reported Q1 results in May was that the review would last throughout most of 2011 and a decision would come later in the year. And that seemed to come a lot earlier than most were expecting, and I'm wondering what may have changed.

And can you confirm that the door has been fully and definitively shut, at least over the next three to five years, in trying to carve up the drug side of the business, meaning split up innovative core and Established Products?

And then, lastly, Ian, there was a recent in-depth press article that has probably circulated within Pfizer, chronicling the circumstances behind Jeff's departure last year. One of the things that was mentioned was the you were on the cusp of retirement throughout 2010. That also lines up with what we had heard. And suddenly, you get the CEO position. And my question to you is what visibility you can give us in terms of how long we can expect you to stay in your current role versus realizing that potential goal of retirement.

IAN READ: Thank you. So on the review, the strategic review went very well. Pfizer's team -- when we get into something, we normally try and beat our estimated dates. We are a pretty aggressive and enthusiastic team, and we managed to bring that together and do the review with the Board in beating our internal targets and got the announcement out. I felt it was a credit to us, and we wanted the capital markets to know what the plans were as soon as possible.

On EP, we've completed this review. We've taken the decision to continue to grow EP inside Pfizer. I think we need to increase our focus, our managerial focus and our way forward on that product -- on that business, sorry. And it's critical to Emerging Markets. It's important in our cash flows. It's sort of entangled in many parts of our business and our plans. So I think we owe it to that business and to our shareholders to maximize the value from that business.

And really, on the last question, I feel very privileged to have this job. I work with a great team, I'm enthusiastic, and I'm going to continue to give it all to improve Pfizer's performance. Thank you for the question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian, and operator, our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, a couple -- first, maybe a little more meat on the bones on the last one. How are you approaching the EP business strategy differently versus in the past? That's for Dave and/or Ian.

Secondly, do you still view Remoxy as a when, not an if? And can you offer any time lines around some of the comments made on that, Ian?

And lastly, just a little bit higher level, I realize your stock price is a moving target day to day. But with your stock at $18.50 versus the low $20s a few months ago, should we assume that external deployment of cash is now much less likely, given the return available from a buyback, or does your mindset on capital allocation not change that quickly?

IAN READ: Okay, so EP -- I think I sort of addressed this a little bit with Jami's question -- I think it was Jami's question. We see EP as being important for three reasons -- one, the economic growth that's occurring in the emerging markets; two, the cash flows that come from that business and the potential growth in that segment as wealth increases.

So we are going to take a regional approach, we believe right now, to EP, where we look at a Brazil or Mexico or an India or a China or a Turkey, and we craft solutions that work for that local marketplace. We've seen that with our approach to Brazil, with a buy-in to the company there. And it's a staged buy-in, so local management is in place. It's doing very well, they know the business, they are growing it and eventually will acquire 100% ownership. And in China we are looking for partnerships.

So that's our approach to EP, with an aggressive, focused management under David.

On Remoxy, we see it as when, not if. We're talking through it with the FDA. We are bringing Pfizer's manufacturing and [pharm side] skills to bear on that, and it will be a question of when.

And on the stock price, I think the question is -- at every opportunity we look at, we measure the next best alternative. So clearly, you have to be flexible on that and look at each time and at each opportunity, what your next best alternative is.

So, Frank, do you want to add anything to that?

FRANK D'AMELIO: I'll add just two quick things. One is, we have been and will continue to be acutely focused on total shareholder return. And at these levels, we believe the stock represents a very good value.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank, and operator, if we could move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Just two quick ones, one maybe a little bit more in-depth -- first, Nutritionals. Can you talk about your cost basis for that division and how we should think about the tax implications of a potential outright sale?

Second, and it's a topic I know was talked a lot about at the time of the merger, but can you discuss a little bit your longer-term tax trends that you are anticipating and when we should be thinking about the tax rate coming down over time?

And the final question, and not to focus too much on Established Products, but you talked a lot about the opportunity in the emerging markets here. Can you just flesh out a little bit more your priorities in the more traditional, developed markets for this business? Should we think about M&A in this business unit in the developed markets as something that is likely? And I know you are committed to keeping Established Products. But are there pieces of this franchise that could be selectively sold off or don't necessarily make sense, given your kind of broader kind of approach to Established Products at this point? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Chris. Frank, when you take the Neurontin -- sorry -- the Nutritional and the tax trends?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So I think maybe I'll start with the tax trends over time. Last year, our tax rate was 30%. We guided, this year, to 29% and for next year at 29% in terms of the adjusted tax rate. I think beyond 2012, with everything going on in the world these days, I think assuming something at around 29% is the right assumption currently. So that's how I would guide relative to the tax rate on a going-forward basis -- pretty much where it is today.

In terms of Nutri, Chris, you had a couple questions -- a couple parts to the question; let me see if I hit them all. One, in terms of the margins of that business, the operating margins of that business, quite frankly, the diversified businesses in general, are not the same as the pharmaceutical operating margins. I've said that previously. They are somewhat lower, but they have lower risk as well, all of which is factored into the guidance that we provide for 2011 and 2012.

In terms of the tax and the cost basis of that business, the way to think about that is, we will choose a structure relative to our go-forward strategy on Nutritionals that generates the greatest after-tax value for our shareholders.

IAN READ: And, Chris, your question on EP and developed markets -- look, you know, we -- our position and structure allows a lot of focus on our strategies. And David is running EP and Emerging Markets, and clearly he will look at the composition of the portfolio and constantly monitor it vis-a-vis how to maximize value and is open to any and all ideas and thinking through ideas of what to do with segments of the portfolio so as to maximize value.

And regarding the developed markets, it's a similar issue. We have BU heads in Geno and Olivier who are looking at opportunities to add value to that portfolio, do BD activities, and we constantly review business development activities. But we are not going to sacrifice shareholder value by chasing revenue growth. So we are very disciplined in that approach.

David, do you want to add anything?

DAVID SIMMONS: Yes, maybe just to build on what you're saying and give a little bit more color -- although we classify some markets in the developed world, some of the markets are characterized in their underlying market construct similar to key emerging markets. Japan is a key one in this regard. So from an EP perspective, Japan would be a priority market.

Also in the developed world, if we move away from -- in a commodity-solid world, those type markets, the developed world is very interesting to us and a priority in the area of biosimilars. These markets are -- the biologic markets are growing very, very rapidly. So the biosimilar focus in developed markets is quite keen.

IAN READ: Thank you, David.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, and operator, if we can move to our next question.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: A couple of quickies, I guess -- first of all, can you give us an update on Tanezumab? Is that still alive? Did you have your meeting with FDA?

And then, second of all, on Biocon and the deal that you have for the biosimilars in insulin, can you give us a flavor for -- when is that going to start to come out? How many products are there, and when is that going to start to have a meaningful impact?

IAN READ: On Tanezumab, we have submitted our data package to the FDA and are awaiting action dates from them as we follow up on Tanezumab. And on Biocon, David?

DAVID SIMMONS: Yes, the scope of the Biocon agreement is for three products. These are recombinant insulin, glargine, Lispro and Aspart and -- excuse me, so it's four products, not three.

Also we have launched two of the projects, glargine and recombinant insulin, in India. This is a relatively small diabetes market, so while we will have a lot of learnings there, the impact is not going to be so significant. But it is a definitive first step forward and execution of the partnership from development of the products through regulatory approval through commercialization and launch.

The meaningful impact we expect to occur when large, developed markets come online, specifically the US, and we are looking out a few years, out to 2015 and 2016, in that area.

CHUCK TRIANO: Great, thanks, Dave. Operator, we can move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: So just a quick question -- first on the dividend, Frank, can you just update us on what the plans are for the dividend with regard to growth and the pace at which we'll get there and how that measures relative to the 2012 guidance?

The second question is also on Prevnar and the pace of Prevnar. Can you just help us understand the direction? Again, we have seen some vaccines kind of roll over at certain points in time after you go through a catch-up cohort. Maybe, Geno, if you can just update us on where we are in terms of the catch-up cohort in the different markets and how do you see the pace of uptake? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the dividend, what I said towards, I guess, the second half of last year was our goal was to have a dividend payout ratio that was approximate to the industry average of about 40% in roughly three years. And that's the path that we are on. If you look at what we did this past December, we increased the dividend from $0.72 to $0.80, so $0.08, an 11% increase. In terms of going from the $0.80 forward, we have a meeting with the Board again in December where we will be discussing another dividend increase. And I think the way to think about it is we will do it in steady chunks as we work our way through the time frame.

GENO GERMANO: Okay, with regard to Prevnar, we are pretty well penetrated in developed markets around the world now, and we are still seeing some growth in the emerging markets. The one standout exception is Japan, where we are seeing very strong growth and we expect to continue to see that growth rate through the rest of this year and even into next year.

And with regard to the catch-up population, the strongest catch-up program is in the United States. We got off to a very good start last year and realized some significant gains in the catch-up. We are seeing that continue in this year, but that will certainly decline as we get into the third and fourth quarter this year. Year on year, we will be lower this year on catch-up in the US by about $15 million to $20 million versus last year. And then, of course, in 2012 the catch-up population in the US will be significantly diminished.

We are seeing some catch-up opportunity in some of the European markets, and it's more steady as opposed to the relatively large uptake initially with a tail. So I think that we will see a little bit more in 2011 and 2012, but it won't be a major factor influencing the brand.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Geno; operator, if we could take our next question, please.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have a couple of questions -- first is on strategy. Ian, in the first quarter of the year, investors were pretty excited about a transformation at Pfizer. And obviously, Pfizer has decided to exit some relatively small businesses. But I was hoping to hear your updated perspectives and vision on how you plan to return Pfizer to growth, including boosting the R&D output.

I think everybody clearly sees that you are reducing the spending, which should boost the return on capital in R&D, but I was hoping to better understand how you plan to boost the R&D output as well.

And then, second, with respect to the pipeline I'm hoping that someone can comment on tofacitinib's side effect profile, including its impact on the kidneys and liver and your level of confidence in an FDA approval next year. Thanks very much.

IAN READ: Thank you, David. Geno, why don't you deal with the tofacitinib question first, and I'll come back to the first question.

GENO GERMANO: Okay. For tofacitinib at this point now, we've got five Phase 3 trials. We have over 5000 patients in our database. We've had time to take a pretty good look at the data and review it and discuss it with our advisors, and we feel confident in the safety profile and the benefit/risk ratio for the drug at both doses tested.

We are busy putting the dossiers together and anxious to discuss the profile with the FDA.

IAN READ: Thank you, so we had a very open discussion, I thought, with the investment community about our intention to look at the different businesses and make decisions that would give the best return to Pfizer's shareholders. And I think we arrived at the right place with the decisions on Animal Health and Nutritional, where we are unlocking value, and on Emerging Markets or Established Products and Consumer.

So we are -- I am very focused on the fact that we need to fix the innovative core, which is my first priority or my first imperative for the Company. And myself and Mikael and ELT are very well aware that our future success depends on that. And we are aligned in focusing on that, and I do not see that the -- you know, while I agree with you that we do need to increase return on capital, we also need to improve the volume of throughput through that organization.

And our whole effort in R&D is organized around improving the overall productivity of that portfolio. I'm going to ask Mikael to talk to that because it has been a result of a lot of conversations at the ELT and with the research organization on our overall vision of the research organization in 2015. But broadly, it's in three areas. It's focusing on the areas where we know we can win, where we have the science, we have the expertise, where we see a productive research effort. It's a cultural change where we are looking at researchers that are focused on results. It's not shots on goal, its shots in goal. It's a culture change. It's a change of where we do our research, how much biology and chemistry we integrate, how empowered our chief scientific officers are. It's about changing the structure of who we partner with and how we partner, hence our partnerships with Icon and Parexel and our partnerships with key universities and, also, our focus on precision medicine.

Those are the three big buckets. And I may have stolen Mikael's thunder, but I'll ask him to add a little bit to that.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: David, I think you are absolutely right. We and this industry need, first and foremost, to drive productivity and create higher return of investment. And that's our goal; it's not simply cost cutting. We have eliminated a lot of inefficiencies. We are focusing on areas with good R&D visibility and commercial attractiveness. We have actually closed more than 90 projects that we think are projects representing areas with not sufficient return on investment.

As Ian alluded to, we are accessing external expertise in new ways. We have announced new partnerships such as with Icon and Parexel to have a more flexible and efficient cost base. And more recently, we have taken transformative initiatives such as the Center for Therapeutic Innovation, in which we now have partnered with 17 of the leading academic medical centers in this nation.

Ian spoke to precision medicine, which we think is an approach to more targeted, effective treatments, more durable, long-lasting use of medicines and create value for patients and payers. And we think, you know, these investments in this change-oriented fashion will be the right approach to beat the cost of capital over time. And we supplement them with focused licensing of quality opportunities and bolt-on acquisitions to enhance pipeline and capabilities.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Mikael. And I think, operator, we have time for one last question, please.

OPERATOR: Michael Tong, Wells Fargo Securities.

MICHAEL TONG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: If I recall, Ian, Oxecta is actually the first of a line of potential abuse-deterrent immediate-release opioids in the pipeline that you have acquired from King. I just wanted to get a sense of your commitment towards furthering that pipeline. I know there are a couple more products that are almost Phase 3-ready. So can I expect them to move into Phase 3 in, let's say, the next 6 to 12 months?

IAN READ: Well, I think -- you know, we bought this business because we are committed to the pain area. We have taken the portfolio we acquired and will continue to develop it. We need to bring in better to market after fixing the stability issues, which we had to withdraw. We are working on Remoxy, and I think that's basically the list of technologies we acquired. Olivier, do you want to add anything to that?

OLIVIER BRANDICOURT: No; I think it's important to realize that Oxecta is not -- it's an immediate-release, so the market is very different from [Ambetta] and Remoxy. We are going to launch Oxecta before the end of the year, but our focus will certainly be on the other two products.

IAN READ: Yes, and you know, the pain area, as Mikael mentioned, is very important to us. We have research in the NAV channel area, and we have picked that as an area to continue to invest in. So I think you will continue to see us investing in research in that area.

CHUCK TRIANO: And that will conclude our call, folks. Thank you very much for your time.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110816e782004ed
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  Pfizer  Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,378 words
   PD
3 May 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's first-quarter 2011 performance. I am here with our CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for Nutritionals; and David Simmons, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.

The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance first quarter 2011, which is located in the Investor Presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause the actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, May 3, 2011. These reports are available on our website at Pfizer.com in the Investors SEC filing section.

With that I will now turn the call over to Ian Read.

IAN READ, PRESIDENT, CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Chuck. Good morning everyone. During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter, speak to the progress we are making in executing our R&D strategy, provide updates regarding our late stage product portfolio and capital allocation initiatives. And I will close with an update on the business portfolio review work we have underway.

Our year is off to a good start. Our results were favorably impacted by revenue growth from several key products, growth in Emerging Markets, the addition of legacy King products, and the benefits from cost reduction initiatives, among other things.

At the same time, revenues were also negatively impacted by the loss of exclusivity of several products in the US and other geographies. Frank will take you through the details of the quarter, but here are a few of the noteworthy highlights.

We saw strong growth in the Prevnar franchise, Enbrel, Zyvox notably in the US and Japan. We saw growth from several other products, including Lyrica, Spiriva, and Celebrex, in key international markets. We had 8% operational growth in the Biopharmaceutical Emerging Markets business, including 10% operational growth in the BRIC-MT countries. This was highlighted by strong growth in China, India and Turkey.

Sales were impacted by large vaccine sales in the first quarter of 2010. Our overall global innovative core of patent-protected Biopharmaceutical products had operational growth in the mid-single digits.

Within our Established Products business, if we exclude revenue additions to the business unit from off-patent Wyeth and King products, as well as LOE transfers from the other business units since the beginning of 2009, we saw 7% growth. This performance was driven by both the legacy Pfizer Established Products in the unit as of 2009, and those products added for the portfolio expansion strategy.

This is a good measure of the progress we have made since creating this business unit in 2008 with the goal of transforming what was a shrinking revenue base into a growth opportunity.

We continue to remain focused on efforts to reduce costs with our more disciplined and deeply rooted cost management effort. Operating savings were realized during the quarter due to the Wyeth integration, workforce reductions, actions taken with the R&D portfolio, as well as savings from our smaller physical footprint.

So far this year through April 30 we have returned approximately $3.8 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In early April we announced an agreement to sell Capsugel business for $2.375 billion in cash to KKR.

Looking ahead to the rest of the year, I believe our performance during the first quarter firmly positions us for executing our 2011 plan and achieving our financial guidance.

Now I will turn to an update on the progress we are making with our R&D strategy. I will begin by reiterating that improving the performance of our innovative core remains my top priority.

Since sharing with you our R&D strategy during the February earnings call, we have moved quickly to set in motion the actions needed to execute on our plans. Over the past three months we have spent time successfully aligning colleagues across the business with our strategy. We are taking important steps forward to provide greater budget authority and accountability to our disease area Chief Scientific Officers. Based on my interaction with our R&D team, I remain confident that we have Chief Scientific Officers who will deliver scientific excellence with an ROI mentality.

We have completed a review of our pre-proof of concept portfolio. As a result of this review we have elected to terminate 39 projects. We did this to create a greater focus on high potential projects in our areas of go-forward investment, which include neuroscience, cardiovascular metabolic, oncology, inflammation and vaccines. We believe these and other changes will lead to more effective prioritization of the portfolio based on key value and cross criteria.

We said we would establish a dedicated unit focused on pain and sensory disorders. To that end, we recently opened a new biotech research unit in Cambridge, UK, focused in this area. We have also started the preparations for shifting resources to strengthen our key biomedical hubs, including the Cambridge, Massachusetts, and New York City academic hub, and have begun recruiting key talent.

Clearly our work here is not going to be completed in one year. It is a multiyear endeavor, and I'm working closely with Mikael Dolsten and the R&D organization to accelerate.

As this work continues, we are also seeing progress in our late stage clinical portfolio that we anticipate will lead to new product opportunities. During this year we expect to present clinical data on assets from each of our innovative Biopharmaceutical businesses -- Primary Care, Specialty Care and Oncology. Specifically during 2011 we expect to report on several important programs in Phase 3 and some potential regulatory submissions and actions.

For Phase 3 we now have reported topline results for all five of the tofacitinib Phase 3 registrational studies, which we believe are forming a very encouraging clinical profile, and expect to present detailed data at medical conferences during this year.

We expect additional clinical data to be presented for Axitinib for renal cell carcinoma, Prevnar 13 for the prevention of pneumococcal disease in adults age 50 and older, and Eliquis, which is the new name for apixaban [redata] for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation.

We continue to collect clinical data for crizotinib in non-small cell lung cancer patients and for (inaudible) psoriasis.

Regarding the regulatory submissions crizotinib will remain on track with our rolling US submission which began in January. We look forward to acceptance of our application in the first half of this year. We continue to anticipate filings in the US and the EU by the end of 2011 for certain other oncology compounds as well as for tofacitinib and Eliquis.

In terms of anticipated regulatory decisions later this year the PDUFA date for Remoxy is currently set for June 23, 2011. At this time we are working to address a specific issue in the manufacturing section of the application, as well as to understanding potential implications for FDA's recent classwide REMS announcement for extended release opioids.

These issues could delay the timing of approval for the launch of Remoxy. We expect to receive actions later this year on our US and EU filings for Prevnar 13 in adults. In summary, each of these assets or compounds is really innovative and demonstrate our capabilities.

Next I will discuss our ongoing efforts around how we are allocating our capital to directly enhance shareholder value. Specifically as of April 30, we repurchased approximately $2.2 billion of Pfizer shares this year. With our he recent agreement to sell Capsugel to KKR for approximately $2.4 billion in cash, we now expect to repurchase at least $5 billion and up to $7 billion of shares during 2011. This compares to our previously announced plan to repurchase approximately $5 billion of shares in 2011.

We may also consider using a portion of the proceeds from the sale of Capsugel to fund other opportunistic business development transactions that are expected to meet or exceed the return on investment of share repurchases.

Regarding business development, we will continue to identify and pursue those bolt-on opportunities that leverage our core capabilities and then build on our portfolio strengths. We will seek and pursue the opportunities that we believe will return the highest value to our shareholders.

On our February earnings call I shared with you that we're looking at the long-term value creation potential of all our businesses. As part of the evaluation we will consider synergies between businesses, the opportunity costs associated with continued or increased investment in each business, as well as the potential returns from pursuing other strategic alternatives.

As I previously shared with you, we are undertaking a rigorous process which we expect to complete during the second half of 2011. Following the completion of this process we will be in a position to make a set of decisions and determine the appropriate next steps based on those decisions.

In summary, with a solid quarter behind us I believe we are making good progress in executing on our R&D strategy to improve the performance of our innovative core, building a strong pipeline with good scientific and commercial potential, continuing to take steps that will enhance shareholder return in the near term. And we are being diligent on how we make the decisions that we believe will result in long-term value creation that maximizes shareholder return.

Now I will turn it over to Frank to take you through the numbers.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, EVP BUSINESS OPERATIONS, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day everyone. As always, the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast. It is important to note that because of our decision to sell the Capsugel business all revenues and expenses related to Capsugel for both the first quarter 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 are included in the single line item, discontinued operations net of tax, in our consolidated income statement for the first quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2010.

In addition, as a result of the completion of the King acquisition, legacy King operations are included in first-quarter 2011 results beginning January 31 of 2011, but are not included in the results for the first quarter of 2010.

Now let's move on to the results. First-quarter 2011 reported revenues were $16.5 billion, essentially flat year-over-year and favorably impacted by $224 million or 1% due to the addition of legacy King products, $97 million or 1% due to foreign exchange. First-quarter 2011 revenues were decreased by $166 million or 1% due to US Health Care Reform.

The 12% year-over-year increase in reported diluted EPS was driven by growth for certain products, lower purchase accounting adjustments and acquisition-related costs associated with the Wyeth acquisition, lower first-quarter effective tax rate on reported income, primarily reflecting the extension of the US R&D tax credit, the change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings during the quarter, and the tax impact of charges related to certain legal matters. These were partially offset by loss of exclusivity of certain products, legal charges and costs incurred to improve overall R&D productivity.

First-quarter 2011 adjusted cost of sales increased 9% or $261 million versus the prior-year quarter. It is important to note that adjusted cost of sales was negatively impacted by $64 million due to foreign exchange, $30 million due to the Puerto Rico excise tax, as well as Health Care Reform, which resulted in decreased revenues, but did not correspondingly decreased cost of sales, and a shift in product and business mix.

Consequently, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue increased year-over-year from 17.1% to 18.7%. However, excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange, the Puerto Rico excise tax and Health Care Reform, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 18.1%.

Adjusted total cost increased 3% to $9.6 billion, driven by a shift in product and business mix, the addition of legacy King operations, which had an impact of $160 million, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $101 million, the quarterly component of the annual fee required under US Health Care Reform legislation, which had a negative impact of $69 million, and the previously mentioned impact of the Puerto Rico excise tax. These were partially offset by savings from our cost reduction initiatives.

Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, adjusted total cost increased only 2% year-over-year. Finally, adjusted diluted EPS was $0.60 per share, flat year-over-year and driven primarily by growth in certain products, a lower effective tax rate on adjusted income and lower R&D expenses, offset by a shift in product and business mix, the loss of exclusivity of certain products, and the impact of US Health Care Reform.

In the first quarter 2011 foreign exchange positively impacted revenues by $97 million and negatively impacted adjusted total cost by $101 million. Remember, our Q1 international results include the months of December, January and February, and over this timeframe the euro to the dollar actually worked against us on a year-over-year basis. All in, foreign exchange had essentially no impact on first-quarter adjusted diluted EPS.

Primary Care unit revenues of $5.4 billion decreased 7% year-over-year, driven by growth in Lyrica, Spiriva, Pristiq and Celebrex and certain other patent protected products in key international markets, as well as the addition of legacy King products. These were more than offset by the loss of exclusivity of Lipitor in Spain and Canada, and Aricept in the US, all in 2010, which decreased Primary Care revenues by $590 million or 10% this quarter.

The 12% increase in Specialty Care unit revenues was driven by the strong growth in the Prevnar franchise, Enbrel and Zyvox, notably in the US and Japan. Established Products unit revenues of $2.4 billion decreased year-over-year by 16% operationally, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity of Effexor, Protonix and Zosyn/Tazocin, and the resulting increased competition facing these brands, which was partially offset by the addition of legacy King products.

The 8% operational growth in Biopharmaceutical Emerging Markets revenue was due to both innovative products, including Enbrel, Lyrica, Sutent and Vfend, as well as Established Products.

Oncology unit revenues decreased 13% operationally, primarily due to the transfer of Aromasin's US business to Established Products in 2011 as a result of its loss of exclusivity in April of 2011.

Animal Health grew 15% operationally, of which 6% or $50 million was due to legacy King products, and the remainder due to strong global performance. And Consumer Healthcare grew 11% operationally, driven primarily by higher sales of Robitussin and Advil cough and sinus because of a more severe cold and flu season, particularly in the US market.

First-quarter 2011 revenues generated from both Biopharmaceutical and other businesses in Emerging Markets increased 11% year-over-year, and Biopharmaceutical revenues grew 8% operationally.

It is important to note that over the same period Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico and Turkey contributed a combined 58% to the overall growth in Emerging Markets.

Revenues from the Biopharmaceutical businesses grew 10% operationally in these BRIC-MT markets to approximately $1 billion. Revenues from Established Products in Emerging Markets increased 6% operationally to approximately $900 million. And Established Products revenues in the BRIC-MT markets increased 13% to $450 million.

Finally, worldwide revenues generated by sales of Established Products, which include revenues from the Established Products business unit and revenues from Established Products generated in Emerging Markets, totaled $3.3 billion in the first quarter.

We are reaffirming all elements of our 2011 financial guidance. As a reminder, on April 4 we updated our previous 2011 reported revenue guidance to $65.2 billion to $67.2 billion from $66 billion to $68 billion to reflect the pending sale of Capsugel.

We are also reaffirming our 2012 financial targets, given our continued confidence in the business. Again, we updated our previous 2012 reported revenue target range to $62.2 billion to $64.7 billion from $63 billion to $65.5 billion due to the pending sale of Capsugel.

So moving on to key takeaways. We continued to deliver strong operational performance. We are affirming all elements of our 2011 financial guidance and 2012 financial targets. We expect to complete our business portfolio review during the second half of 2011. We anticipate presenting data and submitting regulatory submissions for several of our late stage pipeline compounds during 2011. And we continue to expect to repurchase $5 billion to $7 billion of common stock during 2011.

We anticipate using approximately $2 billion of the after-tax proceeds from the pending sale of Capsugel for these repurchases and/or for business development. To date in 2011, we have repurchased approximately $2.2 billion or 110.5 million shares of our common stock, including repurchases made in the second quarter.

Now I will turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. At this point, operator, if you could please poll for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Ian, a couple of questions for you. Specifically, if you could outline for us what you're -- how you're thinking about strategic alternatives for Emerging Markets and Established Products?

And, secondly, if you could also share with us if you have narrowed your options regarding strategic alternatives for your diversified businesses?

Then, thirdly, just so that you could clarify, what your plans will be assuming you do spin or sell some of these businesses, what you will do with the cash proceeds? Thanks.

IAN READ: So let's take perhaps in reverse order. I think we said that proceeds -- if we do spin proceeds -- the case to beat would be share repurchase. So I think that is -- we have firmly drawn a line in the sand there.

You asked then for the -- look at the -- how I see looking at the EP and Emerging Markets strategical alternatives. The EP business is made up of mature markets in the United States and in Europe and then the Emerging Markets. In mature markets it is really a low-cost, and to a certain extent, a price game. And in the Emerging Markets it continues to be promotion and field force and traditional marketing.

So I think if we look at the strategic intersections, it is -- the most interesting question is in the Emerging Markets, and the extent that the Established Products are part of the core, are they linked to the infrastructure, are they linked to overall presence in the marketplace, and how would those businesses be operated separately or do they require different capabilities? So those are the sort of strategic questions we are looking at as we look at those two -- as those two options.

Then you asked me if I have narrowed my alternatives. We are still reviewing all of our alternatives on the businesses outside of the core. We intend to take the second half to go through that in a thorough way. As I said in my opening remarks, expect to start making some announcements during the second half.

I don't think we see it as a big bang. I don't foresee at some point second-half suddenly coming out with a detailed master plan. But certainly we will lay out decisions we have taken and decisions we haven't and the whys and analysis and give a clearer path forward.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I wanted to ask Ian a big picture question, and then I have a question on the Nutritionals business. If you step back, Ian, I know that you have talked a lot about how you are evaluating each particular business on its own and what to do with it, but clearly in the bigger picture I wonder if you can directionly just address what type of growth profile that you're trying to create for the Pfizer business ultimately? And thinking about this strategic exercise that you're going through, are we talking about a company that is going to be growing mid single digits, mid to high single digits? Anything you can directionally say as to your aspirations longer term would be helpful.

Then on the Nutritionals business it seemed like the growth was a little weaker this quarter. I wondered if you could give us some color on that?

IAN READ: Okay, I will address the first question, and then ask perhaps Frank and Amy to add something on the second. So when we look at post 2012 we will continue to see a series of LOEs that will affect our growth rate, yet we will be launching some really innovative products into that marketplace post 2012.

So I conceptualize the Company, if you put to one side the diversified businesses, just in the way you describe what is happening, as a pharmaceutical business that has an exciting inner core of launching new innovative products. And then a set of more established assets that will -- some of those shall be suffering LOEs.

So I think the key question for the investors is how exciting is the innovative core? How exciting and what is the penetration of those newly launched products? And what will we do with the cash flows from those more mature products, and to what extent can those cash flows be used to produce earnings growth? That is -- without getting into any decisions about how we see the final shape of the Company or how we see it being structured or managed, I think those are the two big strategic themes in the Company going forward.

Frank, do you want to take the (multiple speakers).

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, Catherine, let me just run the numbers and then I will answer what took place. Nutri sales for the quarter were about $470 million. On a reported basis they were up low single digits, on an operational basis they were flat when you remove foreign exchange.

What is happening is last-quarter's results, so Q1 2010, actually had some favorable one-time items that impacted revenues that did not take place this year. So that is major point 1.

Major point two is we will have some new products for the Nutri business this year that weren't available yet in Q1, so we didn't get the benefit of those new products. So when you look at the numbers and then what happened, those two reasons are really the driver of the Q1 revenue being essentially flat on an operational basis year-over-year.

IAN READ: Okay, thanks, Frank. I think that was a pretty complete answer, so we will move on to the next question.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: Two questions, the first has two parts, it is on Prevnar. Prevnar 13 sequential growth remains extraordinarily strong in the US. Can you comment as to the number of previously vaccinated Prevnar 7 infants who are coming back for a 13 boost relative to the overall de novo vacinees; that is, infants that have not had a vaccination and then therefore are getting 13?

Part B of that question is, can you comment internationally on maybe new tenders that you won in the quarter or those that may be coming up?

Then the second question involves manufacturing. As the LOE for Lipitor or atorvastatin looms in the near future, the question is, do you continue to operate the manufacturing process at full capacity, given you will be supplying Cobalt or Watson product for volume sale, or do you actually ratchet that back? Any color you could provide will be very helpful. Thanks.

IAN READ: Geno, do you want to take the Prevnar question?

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT, GM SPECIALTY CARE AND ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC.: Sure, let me talk about first the catch-up for Prevnar 13 in the US. The catch-up program has been a strong contributor to our growth, both in 2010 and continuing into 2011. In the first quarter about $90 million of our revenues were associated with catch-up sales. As time goes by, the additional revenues from catch-up will diminish as we continue to complete that program, but it should be a continued strong contributor for the remainder of this year.

Then in terms of new tenders, we are in a pretty solid position with most of our major developed markets right now. We are seeing strong growth of actually the 7-valent in Japan, with now new funding -- government funding available there, and that is driving some significant growth in that country. We have signed a two-year contract in Mexico recently, and a number of other smaller markets in the Emerging Markets.

IAN READ: Thank you, Geno.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Then on the manufacturing question, I think I will start by saying clearly once Lipitor loses LOE in the US, we will be competing vigorously for those volumes, not only in the US, but globally as it loses LOE in different countries. And from a manufacturing perspective, we clearly made assumptions around demand forecast and factored those into the manufacturing load. So that is the way we think about it.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: A couple of questions. A year and a half into the merger with Wyeth, SG&A isn't exactly going down. I know you've talked about a couple of things keeping spending higher. But in 2011 it looks like it is probably going to be flat. If I look at the midpoint of your 2012 SG&A guidance versus the midpoint of the 2011 guidance, you are saying SG&A would be about $1.5 billion lower next year. I'm wondering if you can categories where that $1.5 billion in cost savings is going to come from exactly?

Then second question is, if you decide that Established Products is not really part of the core or the future for Pfizer going forward, can that business really be carved out from the parent? I am just trying to figure out what that would look like and how it would work. Is there a potential buyer for that business? Is it capable of standing on its own as a separate publicly traded company or what exactly? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, Tim, it is Frank. I will hit the SI&A question. Let me just start with the numbers for the quarter. So SI&A for the quarter, give or take about $4.5 billion, up about 4% year-over-year from $4.35 billion or so in the year-ago quarter.

Three things really driving that. So you've got the addition of King, you've got foreign exchange, and then you got Health Care Reform. Those were the -- that is the annual fee -- the Rx fee on your annual sales, which is a charge to SG&A.

All those -- those three items all-in are give or take about $170 million, which more than basically offset what the increase was. So the point -- the slight difference is really from cost savings.

Now to run the numbers for the year, our guidance for the year on SG&A is about $19.2 billion to $20.2 billion is the range. Then those 2012 target is $17.5 billion to $[18] billion.(Sic-see press release) Then to your point, if you take the midpoints, you are seeing a number that is coming down, give or take, about $1.5 billion from 2011 to 2012.

I think the major categories there -- and let me frame this -- there is no one big ticket item. So there is not like some one big ticket item, it is really multiple areas of opportunity.

One of the things what we will have is we will have some products are going to be losing exclusivity. There will be some marketing and sales savings as a result of some of those products that are losing exclusivity.

Then there're lots of opportunities in the discretionary spend areas, whether it be things like consulting, non-employees, how we travel, so there is different buckets for each of those. We continue to generate savings from our integration efforts that will be generating part of those savings. So it is no one big ticket item, it is a bunch of different opportunity areas, all of which are being worked very aggressively inside the Company.

IAN READ: So, Tim, on your question on Established Products, all good questions or really good strategic questions that we are, in fact, dealing with and thinking through as we go through this year.

Certainly we have the critical mass in the size of our Established Products in the Emerging Markets for the business to be -- to be a standalone if we want it to be, or if we wanted to try and look at some sort of way of improving the capabilities of that organization to be more effective.

Our thinking on this is clearly how do we create more value for shareholders? What are the core capabilities needed to drive that business? If you actually look at our performance in Emerging Markets we do very well on our legacy brands. We do very well on our specialty. I would say the area that perhaps we struggle to compete against local companies is in the pure established brand products.

So there we are trying to step back and say, we have a strategy that is based on multisourcing from partners throughout the Emerging Markets. Is that strategy scalable? What is the best way of running that business? So all of the questions you asked are the questions we are trying to answer in the second half of the year.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI: Congratulations on the results, and just have a couple of questions. Ian, I think you had indicated on the last conference call that you're going to be spending a fair amount of time with the R&D organization. What have you learned over the last quarter as you have spent time with R&D? And as you will look at R&D spend going forward is there any additional room for trimming of the R&D budget?

The second question on oncology. I think you're about to file certain oncology assets, can you maybe articulate whether Axitinib and Bosutinib are part of those filings?

And then the third question, especially in light, Ian, of your comments on bolt-on opportunities with the highest return for shareholders, can you help us understand whether you have the right business development process in place, especially in light of some of the things that we've seen with the King transaction, most notably the withdrawal of Embeda, Remoxy filing, etc., to ensure that these things can be ironed out before a transaction is actually hit on?

IAN READ: Thank you, John. On the R&D organization, I am very optimistic and enthusiastic about the organization. I think under Mikael's leadership we are getting an entrepreneurial sense into the organization with empowered, committed scientists that are focused on what I would call making unstoppable products. Shots in goal, not shots on goal. Very acutely aware of the resources being used, and the payback necessary to continue getting those resources.

On the spend, I think, we did a -- this R&D review that we did is part and parcel of the total strategic review we are doing with the other businesses. It is not different in any sense. So we arrived at an amount of funds we thought was appropriate to generate a return on investment of that innovative core. So I think the spend is right, and we will see as the performance comes through what the appropriate spend level is.

Geno, do you want to answer the oncology, and then I will come back to the bolt-on thing?

GENO GERMANO: Sure, yes. It is exciting time with the oncology portfolio now. We are continuing to proceed with the rolling filing for [tasocitinib] in the US. And we have plans to file Axitinib in the US as well, and are discussing Bosutinib filings in both Europe and the United States.

IAN READ: On bolt-on acquisitions, I think we have a rigorous process that goes through identifies opportunities, and we have been very selective in where we have chosen to play. We have stepped back where necessary, and we have been very disciplined in the use of our funds.

So I am pleased with the King acquisition. We were pleased when we acquired it; we remain pleased. It provides significant immediate value creation. It is accretive. It adds to our scale of both PC business -- the Primary Care business in the EpiPen, the Flector Patch. And when Embeda and Remoxy will launch it will add to those capabilities.

It adds to our Animal Health business and to our EP business. So I feel that we looked at the opportunities out there. This was a prudent acquisition. It was good value for money. We saw the risks in our due diligence on Embeda and potentially on Remoxy. And we took the decision based on the value we were acquiring at, so I feel that we have a very solid process.

OPERATOR: Gregg Gilbert, Merrill Lynch.

GREGG GILBERT, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: A follow-up on the King assets. Can you give us some color on whether or whether Embeda will come back? And what is the manufacturing issue on Remoxy that you mentioned? And perhaps you can share your enthusiasm for that product in (inaudible) market?

My second question, Ian, is bigger picture. Do you think having a large portfolio of brands and generics, including some very mature ones, can help your new innovative product launches from a contracting point of view, or do you not really subscribe to the product breadth and contracting muscle sort of playbook? Thanks.

IAN READ: Well, so on Embeda, I can't give you an exact date. We are still working through the manufacturing issues on that. And on Remoxy and that class in general, I am very encouraged by the opportunities, given the REMS that just come out and the government's recognition of this -- how important this area is in abuse deterrent and safety. So I think as a strategic play it is very important for us, and will medium- to long-term will work out very well.

Now in regards the broad breadth of portfolio, I'm a lot more inclined to look at it asset by asset and look at the clinical value that the asset delivers to the society, to the payer, to governments around the world. And I don't really subscribe in today's marketplace to aggressive portfolios being an argument to get listings.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have two questions for you, Ian. The first is if you could provide some more color on your comment about no big bang in terms of your strategic review outcome. Do you mean to say that you're going to be making decisions one by one on the non-core assets, and so that is why you said no big bang or are you backing off at all from your recent discussions that you're interested in significantly downsizing Pfizer?

Then, separately, with respect to the innovative core, I am hoping that you could provide little bit more color on how you plan to boost Pfizer's productivity in the face of variety of headwinds, including size working against innovation. I know that you're doing some small partnerships with academic institutions, but that seems to be a small fraction of the spending and time of your R&D organization. It doesn't seem to be that there is a large effort on individual academic partnerships.

Then, one follow-up on that is just maybe you could comment on improving your culture and being able to do so in the face of stepping down the R&D spending.

IAN READ: Okay, so re the big bang. I remain -- we remain committed to looking at all our businesses, and I think we used the expression no sacred cows, and we remain intent upon that. What I was trying to convey there is that I don't expect in the second half to come forward with a fully mapped out announcement of dispositions and models that will direct the Company for the next 5 to 10 years.

That is the intent to get to that, and I think we would expect that over the rest of this year and some part of the beginning of 2012. But, certainly, we'll take decisions in the second half of 2011 as regard to how we want to create additional value for shareholders vis-a-vis what we do and how we treat the non-core businesses, and we will get back to you in the second half on that. But you should not interpret my comments in any way as being a reluctance to take the decisions necessary to drive the innovative core.

This is the culture and how we are going to return productivity in R&D. I think it comes down to a lot of what we have discussed on creating the Chief Scientific Officers for disease areas, empowering them, giving the right incentive structure, giving them control over their budgets. It comes down to the quality of leadership that Mikael Dolsten will exercise over research. The quality of the leaders that we will hire, and also utilize with the leaders we already have inside the organization.

We intend to look at a very strong incentive system to motivate entrepreneurial behavior in R&D. We are focusing on key disease areas where we believe we have capabilities and the depth of science to be successful.

So, fundamentally, we think we have sized our research, sized the effort, sized the resources and focused it so it will be productive. And we will continue to work on that. And while I think the model we have is going to be successful, we will continue to review it. And we have metrics internally that will measure that on a six-monthly, yearly basis. And we are very, very focused on getting this model right and getting productivity.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: My first question is on the strategic review. It seems like several of the actions you could potentially consider if you were to break up pieces of your Pharma division could be associated with incremental near-term costs or dissynergies. At the same time it could lock a lot of shareholder value. How are you thinking about the trade-offs as you consider opportunities to reshape the Company?

The second question is on business development, obviously, doing this year a strategic review. Are your various business units free to pursue transactions, particularly the larger bolt-on deals, the multibillion-dollar type of acquisitions, or should we think about Pfizer pursuing a lower amount of activity as we go through this year? Thanks.

IAN READ: So, yes, your characterization of the way we are looking at the innovative business and the diversified businesses are that we look to see where there are natural synergies. Are there reasons why the businesses work well together and improve our market presence, or are they really stand-alone businesses where there are no dissynergies?

We look at what we need to invest to maintain or improve market position. I am trying to assess what is the competitive set against where we are competing, and what is the probabilities of continued success in those businesses. All that comes down to our view of what is the net present value of the cash flows of those businesses, and what is their value inside Pfizer and what is their value outside Pfizer, and that will drive our decision-making on that.

As regards to business development, each business unit is working in partnership with central business development resources to identify opportunities and bring them forward. A key component is I want to have accountability. I want to have the BU leaders feeling responsible and accountable for the deals they propose. They will then take those deals and manage them, much in the way that the King deal is a good deal and the business units that proposed it are responsible for the results of that acquisition.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: First question is on tofa. Can you just make sure we understand, has there been any more deaths in any of the other studies that you just reported out on? I think we are all pretty clear based on the press release you put out on the prior study, but there was two additional studies that were put out. So if you can comment on that, and maybe just overall how you view the response out there and what is happening with tofa?

Second question is just specifically can you talk about Russia, did it bounce back this quarter? I know it was a tough quarter last quarter. And then in China, how are things looking specifically there? What kind of growth did you see in the quarter, and are you still actively investing as fast as you can there?

IAN READ: So, Geno, would you want to take the tofa (multiple speakers). Then I will ask between Frank and David to answer the (multiple speakers).

GENO GERMANO: Sure, yes, on tofa, just let me start by saying that the mortality rates that we have seen for tofa across all trials are within the expected range, the expected range for therapies -- biologic therapies used in this patient population.

So these are very large trials with patients with severe, moderate to severe disease and mortality does occur in these trials. So we will be reporting full results of all the trials at upcoming meetings, but you won't find anything that is unusual with regard to the mortality rates.

IAN READ: Thank you. David?

DAVID SIMMONS, PRESIDENT, GM EMERGING MARKETS & ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER INC.: Regarding the question for Brazil and -- or for Russia and China, for Russia we did have a bounce back this quarter from what we had last year, and in the fourth quarter in particular. And there was -- underlying demand was very good. Specifically in China things are going very, very well in China. We are currently the number one ranked pharmaceutical company in the Chinese market, and our evolution index is greater than 100. We continue to have targeted investments in this area. We are very, very pleased with our progress and optimistic for future growth in China.

OPERATOR: David Maris, CLSA Credit Agricole.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, CLSA CREDIT AGRICOLE: I would like to ask what an evolution index is, but I'm not going to waste my valuable question.

IAN READ: We will answer it anyway.

DAVID MARIS: But, separately, Ian and Frank, your discussions -- maybe you could tell us with your discussions with chains and payers, what are their biggest challenges right now that have implications on Pfizer? In other words, what are your customers telling you?

Then separately, legislatively, is there anything in recent months or that you're concerned about or less concerned about the pricing environment in the US? And what do you think the implications are for the legislation to defund the state health insurance exchanges, are there any implications for the drug industry or for Pfizer?

IAN READ: So, evolution index, that is a measure of are you growing faster or slower than the market. So 100 would mean you're going at the market rate. Above 100 is you are growing faster than the market, below 100 you are growing less than the market. So David's comments about China that we have a positive evolution index means we are growing faster than the market rate to date.

The next question was on --

DAVID MARIS: What customers are telling us.

IAN READ: Our customers -- our customers remain focused. In broad terms they remain focused on ensuring that they have a competitive offering to their customers in regards to the quality of their health care and the cost or price of their health care. So to the extent that we participate in doing that, where we add value to their other offerings than we are going to be successful.

On the environment, really I think it is very much in flux. We are working along the assumptions of the law that we have in place today, and we will see how it develops as it develops.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: The recent -- your tofa abstract cited four opportunistic infections, I'm wondering if you could tell us what the causative organisms were? And, secondly, regarding Pfizer's relationship with Codexis for Lipitor intermediates, do you have an exclusive supply of ATS-5 from Codexis? And can you explain, or would you explain the difference between the two intermediates ATS-5 and ATS-8, given the latter is not exclusive to Pfizer? Thank you.

IAN READ: So on the Lipitor supply, I have to confess I do not have those details. We will try, if we can, get back to you on a separate information on those. Those details are in the Lipitor and the Codexis relationship, I really do not have any information on that.

The first question was --.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Related to the four opportunistic infections, I can't quote the pathogens. We will be presenting that data at EULAR in very short term.

IAN READ: To reiterate we see nothing --.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes, we didn't see anything unusual, but I can't name the pathogens.

IAN READ: Sorry, Steve.

CHUCK TRIANO: I think, operator, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Shamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: I am just wondering can you -- on the strategic review, Ian, when we think about the difficulties of breaking up the Company and the way that the debt was structured, is there anything that we should think about with regard to covenants for the debt and the ability to restructure the debt associated with some of the potential movements going forward? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thanks, I will ask Frank to answer that.

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think, Shamus, the short answer is no. Given how the debt is structured, we don't see that handcuffing our ability to make the right operational and shareholder divisions relative to the business portfolio.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you everybody for your time this morning, appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the Pfizer's first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
igeneri : Generic Drugs | i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110517e7530040h
  


 HD
 Q4  2010  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,023 words
   PD
1 February 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's fourth-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP IR, PFIZER INC.: Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth-quarter 2010 performance, 2011 financial guidance, and 2012 targets.

   TD
I'm here with our CEO, Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt, President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten, President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano, President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman, our General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for Nutritionals; and David Simmons, President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.

Financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page, Pfizer.com, by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance, fourth quarter 2010, which is located in the investor presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2009 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, February 1, 2011. These reports are available on our website, Pfizer.com, in the investors SEC filings section.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?

IAN READ, CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Chuck. Let me begin by welcoming everyone to our call today.

I'll start with a few comments about 2010. We ended the year with a clear focus on meeting our financial commitments, managing our cost structure, executing on our strategy, successfully integrating Wyeth, and enhancing shareholder value. I'm pleased to report that we made steady progress across these areas and finished 2010 on a strong note, with a very solid fourth quarter and a solid year overall.

Frank will take you through the details shortly, but there are a few notable highlights for the year. We met our top- and bottom-line commitments. We are on track to achieve our multiyear targeted cost reductions. We grew revenues in key emerging markets like China and Brazil. We grew key assets in our branded portfolio, Prevnar 13, Lyrica, Enbrel, Sutent. We saw encouraging results in our late-stage pipeline, Prevnar 13 Adult; [tofocitanib], the new name for tasocitinib; crizotinib; and apixaban.

We expanded the portfolio through strategic and disciplined business development deals, King, Teuto, Biocon, and we returned a meaningful level of capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

In summary, I would say 2010 was a year we once again did what we said we would do. We made additional progress in laying out a solid foundation to build sustainable shareholder value over time.

I'd now like to spend some time sharing my thoughts about Pfizer's future, our key challenges, and the steps we are taking to shape our future. As most of you know, I've spent my career at Pfizer. It's an honor for me to take over as CEO at this important time for both Pfizer and the industry.

We operate in an industry that continues to face multiple challenges. There is ongoing pressure from payers, governments, and society to deliver greater value. Growth is slowing in traditional markets and shifting to rapidly-expanding emerging markets, where different approaches and different resource levels are required.

And universally, the industry has to find an innovative model that produces consistent returns.

We understand these challenges, and I remain very optimistic that Pfizer will be a leader in driving the right solutions. I believe no company is better prepared to address, head on, the market dynamics. We have the talent, global footprint, commercially competitive businesses, capital resources, and the foundation for leading-edge science, which now includes small molecules, large molecules, vaccines, and different modalities represented by Rinat and CovX.

My job as CEO is to manage and focus our capabilities, assets, and talent to drive the most value for our shareholders. We will invest our human and financial capital in those areas where we can lead, and where we don't have core capabilities, we will look to partner or license assets. We are evolving our culture, including research, to be a results-driven and entrepreneurial organization.

For 2011, we will continue to take a hard look at our core capabilities. During today's call, I'm sharing with you the important first steps I and my leadership team have underway to position Pfizer for the future. I will focus on our financial targets, our plans to address R&D productivity, the pipeline, our business portfolio, and plans for capital allocation.

Starting with our financial targets, I believe we have provided a greater degree of certainty regarding our 2012 adjusted diluted EPS target, which we have maintained and strengthened our ability to grow earnings beyond 2012. The revenue range we are sharing with you today includes projected revenue from the King acquisition, but no longer includes any revenue contribution from future business development.

This does not mean that we've decided to pull back on pursuing business development. Our approach will be -- continue to be optimistic and disciplined. We will pursue those deals that best enhance the portfolio and give us the best opportunity for growth. If we believe that a deal will meaningfully impact our targets, we will adjust them accordingly. With this approach, I believe we are providing both a transparent and disciplined use of shareholder cash.

Next, I'll go through the meaningful steps we have taken to improve the performance of our innovative core. I fundamentally believe in the power of innovation in pharmaceuticals, but I recognize to be successful over time we need to substantially improve the rigor of our approach. First, we will sharpen our focus to the core research areas that give us the best promise for scientific and commercial success. We will maintain or increase investment in neuroscience, [CD med], oncology, inflammation and immunology, and vaccines.

In addition, these areas will be augmented by the advanced modalities delivered by CovX and Rinat. We will put in place dedicated units focused on pain and sensory disorders and biosimilars.

We will stop funding in areas of greater risk and/or less productivity, such as allergy and respiratory, urology, internal medicine, and tissue repair, and we will create focus within our post-POC portfolio, the proof-of-concept portfolio. This will include a mix of owned and partnered assets in our high-priority disease areas that together will improve our risk/return profile. Key actions will be determined over the next few months.

Second, we will set up industry-leading models for external collaboration that allows us to share risk and gain access to the best science and technology. We will do this through strategic collaborations of industry and academia, like the announcement that seven of New York City's top research hospitals are joining Pfizer's Centers for Therapeutic Innovation; establishing external research units and collaboration to focus on high potential areas in primary care and specialty care, such as women's health, urology, genetic diseases, and retinal care; in-license IP to access high-quality external molecules and technology platforms; and focusing internal Pfizer R&D capabilities in areas where we deliver unique value, i.e., target selection, molecule design and selection, and safety and regulatory strategies.

We will look to establish external relationships with those R&D capabilities that do not drive competitive value for Pfizer, such as API and dosage form manufacturing, toxology study conduct, monitoring, and bioanalytics. With this change to our services model, we will create greater financial flexibility and reduce capital deployed.

Third, we are strengthening the fundamentals that drive biomedical innovation with a series of actions, including more closely aligning our global R&D network footprint with key hubs for science and technology. We intend to enhance our presence in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to complement our existing R&D network, including those sites located in hubs like San Francisco, New York, La Jolla, and Cambridge UK.

We are establishing and embedding a strong precision-medicine platform across R&D to drive the next generation of high-impact differentiated medicines and vaccines, and we are driving a greater and tighter integration of science and business through an alignment between our research units and business units. This includes a more rigorous portfolio decision-making and governance process.

We are also proposing to make several significant changes to our global R&D network. This includes a proposal to exit the Sandwich UK site and reduce and then shift certain resources in Groton, Connecticut, to Cambridge, Massachusetts. This is not a reflection on the UK operating environment or the quality of science in the UK. Rather, it's a business decision to focus our R&D footprint in must-win areas.

Taken together, we expect that all of these actions will have the net effect of reducing the R&D spend to the range of $6.5 billion to $7 billion during 2012, as compared to our original target of $8 billion to $8.5 billion. More importantly, we believe these actions should strengthen our engine for innovation. We believe they will better balance our modality mix, improve our probability of technical and regulatory success, deliver more differentiated products, and yield a higher return on investment for R&D, while achieving a small and flexible cost base.

Turning to our existing pipeline, we now have a very promising mix of small molecules, biologics, and vaccines, something we have never had before at Pfizer. We will be tracking several key late-stage assets through 2011, including [tofocitanib], apixaban, Prevnar 13 Adult, crizotinib, axitinib, and bosutinib. We know there's more work to do here, and the actions we are taking to improve R&D productivity form the foundation of our efforts.

In addition, we are giving more business ownership and accountability to our chief scientific officers to create a greater ROI mentality in research, and we are establishing clearer metrics for proof-of-concept success. We believe we are putting in place the tools, talent, and decision-making authority that will help us not merely move to in line with the industry, but to become a leader in the industry.

Now, turning to our business portfolio, I believe we have strong commercial capabilities. We are the number one player across many of our businesses -- primary care, specialty care, and animal health. We will continue to look at the value-creation potential of all our businesses. This includes the investment needed to make them profitable, growing businesses; their competitive global position; and where they can create the most value, be it inside or outside of Pfizer.

We have already initiated several actions, including continuing to invest in emerging markets, where we are significantly increasing our geographic reach and field force in China to support a very strong product portfolio that is well aligned with patient needs and demographics; launching a competitive sterile injectables business that has attractive returns within the established products business; solidifying our primary-care pain portfolio with the King acquisition; and exploring strategic alternatives to Capsugel.

The mere fact that we have size and scale will not be a driver for how we make decisions. It will, however, help enable us to make decisions that can enhance our competitive market position through smart business development choices. As an underlying principle, we want to ensure that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts.

We established the current business line-up about 16 months ago. Our job is to make sure Pfizer is taking the best actions for each of these businesses to maximize the value they create and their potential return to shareholders. This has been an ongoing process, which we will expect to complete during 2011, and I will update you regarding any decisions we take during the year.

And finally, a few words about the actions we are taking to directly enhance shareholder value. The Board increased the dividend for the first quarter 2011. We continue to target a dividend payout ratio comparable to the current industry average of approximately 14% in about three years.

We are reallocating cash in order to expand our share repurchase activity. The Board approved a new $5 billion share repurchase plan, which increases our total remaining current authorization to $9 billion. We intend to purchase approximately $5 billion this year. We believe this will provide our shareholders an attractive return, while also giving a higher degree of control and certainty regarding initiatives that can directly impact EPS, without sacrificing our ability to do bolt-on deals. The growth in the dividend, in addition to our share repurchases, will result in significant capital allocation directly to shareholders.

In closing, let me end this call where I began. We started 2010 focused on enhancing shareholder value. As we enter 2011, we are squarely focused on accelerating these efforts. Frank will be getting into more detail in a moment, but in summary, I believe we have provided a greater degree of certainty and a more clearly-defined path to achieve our 2012 adjusted diluted EPS target, taken a significant step forward in addressing the R&D productivity challenge, targeted completing a business portfolio assessment during this year that will focus on shareholder return, and made significant capital allocation decisions.

At the same time, we are building a strong late-stage product pipeline and continue to have financial flexibility.

As I look ahead, I can say with confidence that we are investing in the right areas of growth to take advantage of our core capabilities, we are taking the right actions to manage our costs and expenses, and we are building an entrepreneurial culture that makes the most effective use of our global talent.

Now, let me turn over to Frank to give you more detail on the quarter and the years 2011 and 2012.

FRANK D'AMELIO, SVP, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.

Now let's move on to the fourth-quarter financial results. The $1.1 billion, or 6%, year-over-year increase in fourth-quarter 2010 revenues was primarily attributable to the addition of Wyeth products, which favorably impacted revenues by $2.3 billion, or 14%, partially offset by a decrease of $1.2 billion, or 7%, in legacy Pfizer product revenues and a $70 million, or 1%, negative impact from foreign exchange.

The year-over-year increase in fourth-quarter 2010 reported diluted EPS was primarily due to revenues from Wyeth products and lower restructuring charges associated with the Wyeth acquisition. These were partially offset by lower revenues from Pfizer products, expenses associated with legacy Wyeth operations, and charges for asbestos litigation. Also during the quarter, we reached a settlement with the IRS which had a favorable impact on net income.

Finally, adjusted diluted EPS decreased 4% year over year to $0.47 per share. While revenues from legacy Wyeth operations and a decreased effective tax rate favorably impacted adjusted diluted EPS in the fourth quarter, it was unfavorably impacted by expenses from legacy Wyeth products and lower revenues from legacy Pfizer products.

Fourth-quarter adjusted total costs were negatively impacted primarily by the addition of Wyeth operations and, to a lesser extent, foreign exchange. The increase in adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue from 17.5% to 21.5% was primarily due to the change in the mix of products and businesses resulting from the addition of Wyeth operations and the negative impact of foreign exchange.

The 7% increase in adjusted SI&A expenses was primarily driven by the addition of Wyeth operations. R&D expenses were essentially flat, due to ongoing cost reductions that were offset by the addition of Wyeth operations and continued investment in our late-stage development portfolio.

In the fourth quarter 2010, foreign exchange had a negative impact of $70 million on revenues and a negative impact of $96 million on adjusted total cost. In total, foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth-quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01.

Revenues from our Biopharmaceutical business increased 3%, or about $450 million, to $15.1 billion in the fourth quarter, with operational growth of 4%, of which $1.6 billion, or 11%, was attributable to legacy Wyeth products, which was partially offset by a $1.1 billion, or 8%, decrease in revenues from legacy Pfizer products.

Within the Biopharmaceutical units, legacy Pfizer's year-over-year operational performance reflects the continued negative effect of the loss of exclusivity of certain products, including Lipitor, which lost exclusivity in Canada in May of 2010 and Spain, July of 2010; as well as Aricept in the U.S. in November of 2010, which in the aggregate decreased legacy Pfizer's primary-care revenues by about $500 million year over year.

That said, select Pfizer brands, such as Lyrica, Chantix, and Celebrex, among others, experienced growth in key international markets, especially Japan. In addition, continued pricing pressure in Europe and the impact of U.S. healthcare reform also negatively affected Biopharmaceutical revenues in the fourth quarter.

Fourth-quarter diversified revenues increased year over year by approximately 34%, due to the addition of Wyeth products. Fourth-quarter revenues generated in emerging markets, which include both legacy Pfizer and legacy Wyeth Biopharmaceutical and Diversified operations, increased 38% year over year.

It's important to note that, over the same period, Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico, and Turkey contributed a combined 47% to the overall growth in emerging markets. And legacy Pfizer Biopharmaceutical revenues in these BRIC-MT markets grew operationally by 5% in the fourth quarter and by 9% for the 2010 fiscal year.

As you can see on the chart, in 2010 we again met or exceeded all elements of our full-year financial guidance, including achieving more than $2 billion, or 50%, of our cost-reduction target.

All right, I'd like to comment specifically on a few elements of our 2011 guidance. In particular, we expect reported revenues in the range of $66 billion to $68 billion.

Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues of 19.5% to 20.5%, which is primarily driven by the shift in business and product mix resulting from the Wyeth acquisition, the continued shift in geographic mix with a greater percentage of revenues expected from emerging markets and from established products, the loss of U.S. exclusivity of Lipitor later this year, and the impact of the Puerto Rico excise tax; adjusted SI&A expenses in the range of $19.2 billion to $20.2 billion, which is similar to the 2010 level of $19.5 billion, driven by our continued expansion in emerging markets; the reclassification to SI&A of the U.S. healthcare reform fee; planned investment in new products, such as Prevnar 13 and in support of late-stage assets.

It's also important to note that while the overall trend in spending in support of Lipitor will continue to moderate, in 2011 we continue to invest in certain markets, such as Europe and Japan, where Lipitor is still under patent protection.

We expect 2011 adjusted R&D expenses in the range of $8 billion to $8.5 billion, and finally, we expect adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $2.16 to $2.26.

We've updated some of the elements of our 2012 financial targets, and we now expect reported revenues in the range of $63 billion to $65.5 billion, which includes anticipated revenue from our acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals, but does not assume any meaningful revenue contribution from future business development transactions; adjusted R&D expenses in the range of $6.5 billion to $7 billion, which reflects the impact of our efforts to improve innovation and overall productivity while focusing our investments in areas that we believe provide the best opportunity for scientific and commercial success; adjusted other income and deducts to be approximately $1 billion; the effective tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 29%; and reported EPS to be in the range of $1.58 to $1.73.

In addition, we're providing for the first time a target range for 2012 adjusted SI&A expenses of $17.5 billion to $18.5 billion, which is notably lower than our 2011 guidance. The remaining elements remain unchanged, including adjusted diluted EPS. It's important to note that our adjusted diluted EPS range of $2.25 to $2.35 per share includes the favorable impact of expected revenue growth from key in-line and new products, including Enbrel, Lyrica, and Prevnar 13, and the anticipated revenues from our King acquisition; expected revenue growth in emerging markets, established products, and in diversified businesses; lower SI&A and R&D expenses; and the full-year effect of our planned repurchase of about $5 billion of our common stock during 2011.

So moving on to key takeaways, first and foremost, we met or exceeded all components of our 2010 financial guidance, including our 2010 operational cost-reduction target, we provided financial guidance for full-year 2011, and we also anticipate completing the ongoing review of our portfolio during 2011. And finally, we've updated our 25 financial targets to no longer assume any contribution from future business development transactions in our revenue targets, to reflect the significant increase in planned share repurchases, to add a target range for SI&A expenses that is significantly lower than the 2011 guidance range, and to reflect lower R&D expenses.

And we're reaffirming our 2012 adjusted diluted EPS target range of $2.25 to $2.35, which incorporates the full-year effect of the $5 billion of anticipated share repurchases in 2011. Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank, and at this time, operator, if we could please poll for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). David Maris, CLSA.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning, and a few questions. First, Ian, you touched a little bit on this in your prepared comments, but if you could expand on it, on your view of the state of the company and since taking on the new role, is there anything that you, the Street, or investors don't fully appreciate, either on the positive side or the challenges going forward? And then, I have one quick follow-up.

IAN READ: Okay, well, on the state of the company, I think we went through a pretty good review of 2010. I think we're in a solid position.

We managed to beat slightly our target, despite hits from European pricing and U.S. healthcare reform and slightly faster erosion in Spain of Lipitor than we expected. We grew our key assets. So, I believe we are, as a Company, where we wanted to be at this stage.

The sort of late-stage pipeline needs to come through. I think Pfizer certainly is ready for a win in that late-stage pipeline, and I'm sort of optimistic about how those products can come through over the next couple of years.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan Chase & Co..

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Just two questions here. First up, Pfizer has previously expressed an interest in increasing its exposure to the generic business and building out that established markets' portfolio. Is that something that's still of interest and on the table at this point? Or do you think you have addressed that through the string of partnerships we've seen over the last year or so?

And then, second, in the past I believe Pfizer has commented something to the extent that a larger deal, for example, something north of $10 billion or $15 billion, was not on the table at the current time. Is that still the case, and can you just more broadly comment on the size of transactions you might be targeting at this point? Thanks.

IAN READ: I'll make some initial comments, and then I'll ask David and Frank to add to that.

So I think on the established products, it's a core business unit for us. It's doing what we ask it to do. I think for its -- we're going to evaluate, as I said, all of our business units during 2011 from the point of view of their strategic positioning and return.

I would say that EP's critical strategic decision is how do we continue to source that business with a wide range of products going forward. Our present strategy is to do that through in-licensing and partnerships, and we need to review that and look at if that is sufficient or do we need to bring that capability internal to Pfizer.

And then, regarding the business deals, I don't -- we've never said never to any deals. I think we've talked about them being bolt-ons, talked about doing them if they fit, the specific gaps or needs of a BU or if we can take that intellectual property and leverage it with our core capabilities, and that's really how we look at those things. So David, do you want to add anything on established products?

DAVID SIMMONS, PRESIDENT, GM EMERGING MARKETS & ESTABLISHED PRODUCTS, PFIZER INC.: Yes, I'll just add that we've learned a lot in the last two years from our activities in established products, and we're very optimistic and bullish about the future potential in both developed and emerging markets in this regard. We're very early in our evolution in this business, but we're bolstered by the progress we've made to date. So we remain optimistic.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then on the business development, I think the way to think about this, Chris, is although we never say never, to Ian's point, we'll be focusing on deals that are like the deals we've been doing recently.

So if you say, what are some of the recent deals, deals like Teuto in Brazil, Biocon, and King pharmaceuticals. Deals of those sizes will be the kinds of deals that we'll be looking at on a going-forward basis. As Ian said, to complement our existing businesses, so that when you put them together, one plus one equals more than two.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have a couple of questions. First, with respect to your business portfolio review, Ian, are you primarily evaluating the nonpharma businesses or are you evaluating the core Pharma/Bio operations to consider, for example, splitting up primary and established products from specialty and oncology?

And then, second, I just wanted to ask about the JAK data. You had JAK data presented in November of last year. There were some mixed messages at ACR on elevated liver enzymes and whether they returned to normal after stopping therapy. I was hoping that you might be able to quantify what was observed and defined normal, and then, also, when we will see the next key studies in 2011. Thank you.

IAN READ: Thank you, David. I'll answer the first question and asked Geno to answer the JAK questions.

On the portfolio, my point of view is that there are no sacred cows in this portfolio. I'm not driven by size of the business and I'm not driven by diversity, per se. I want to look at all these businesses from the point of view of how do we move shareholder return.

And I need to take 2011, I think, to do that, to look at it from the point of view of the capital we need to continue to grow those businesses and how they will be positioned against their key competitors if we continue to grow them. And we'll take those decisions in 2011, and I think that we'll try and set the sort of portfolio shape for the foreseeable future by the end of 2011. With that, David? Geno, sorry.

GENO GERMANO, PRESIDENT, GM SPECIALTY CARE & ONCOLOGY, PFIZER INC.: David, just to respond to the question about the JAK-3, the data that we presented last year at ACR, we showed the liver enzyme elevation data. There were relatively few liver enzyme elevation events. They tended to occur at a similar rate across each of the treatment groups and placebo groups, so there was no statistically significant difference between the groups, and importantly, there was no evidence of any liver damage in any patient, whether a placebo-based patient or an active patient. So, we're fairly confident in the data that we've seen so far with regard to liver enzymes.

And with regard to next presentation, the data, we're going to see several trials read out in the first half of this year, and we will look for opportunities to present the data as soon as possible, potentially as early as the EULAR meeting around the middle of the year, and then at ACR later this year.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I had two questions. One is I wanted to ask you about your R&D spend reduction. Obviously, you gave us a lot of examples of where the cuts are coming from, but if you step back, if you could comment on the extent to which this is a change in organizational philosophy, as far as spending this big pot of money, versus the extent to which the Wyeth integration identified additional costs.

And my second question is, to what extent, if any, does today's modified guidance have an impact on King? In other words, if you closed King and you find some extra costs, would that be upside to what you said today or have you already considered any change in your guidance on King?

IAN READ: Thanks, Catherine. On the -- I'll answer the R&D, and then maybe I'll ask Frank to answer the questions on King.

So, look, I think on the research question, I would look at it as this is -- for me, the most fundamental question that Pfizer has to fix is our innovative core. And this is the start of fixing that in a way that will give us consistent productivity in our innovation.

So, the productivity is -- it's a denominator and a numerator, and we've worked on the denominator by taking out expenses where we think those expenses were in high-risk areas with low return or we didn't have core capabilities or where we felt that those type of activities could be better done by third parties and weren't needed to be kept inside Pfizer. So I see those reductions as being reductions that do not lower our ability to be innovative. In fact, it simplifies organization, focuses our organization in key areas, and allows our organization to focus on being productive.

Now, on the output side, it is a continuous change, or a change in our culture in research that I will be working with Mikael Dolsten over the next couple of years, and probably, I think, one of the most important activities that he and I will take -- undertake together is to create the sense inside these RU units, these research units, of ownership and an entrepreneurial sense of owning the money and owning the results. And I believe that will represent a transformation in our R&D productivity, and certainly when you couple that with the integration between what the RUs and the research area have to do to meet the business needs and the business sets that with the RUs.

So, I think we have an integrated system that's going to move our culture and give us a sense of a results-oriented culture in research.

With that, I'll pass it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Catherine, on King, just to refresh, with King we get a branded pharmaceutical business that very much complements and solidifies our primary-care pain portfolio, we get an animal health business that's in the feed additive business that complements our animal health business, and we get the Meridian business, which is autoinjector device-driven and included the EpiPen business.

When we announced King, we also talked about the cost synergies we estimated that were part of that. All of the assumptions around King from a topline perspective, cost structure, then to the bottom line have already been incorporated into our 2011 guidance and our 2012 target.

IAN READ: So, Mikael, would you like to -- I know you're on the line. Would you like to add some comments on the research area, perhaps talk about the three buckets that you see it in?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: Yes, thank you. You know, I feel we have really taken a step to integrate scientific business and financial consideration into an accelerated R&D strategy.

As Ian alluded to, we have a sharpened focus in areas where we can win. And we exited areas where we would dilute our efforts because they are high risk and lower productivity. These changes allow us to align our footprint much more optimal with a major biomedical house where we will be a leading player across the globe, like you've heard Cambridge, MA and UK, La Jolla, San Francisco, New York, and also in Shanghai.

We will increase externalization and outsourcing in areas that don't drive competitive advantage, and that will provide us with more financial flexibility. We have laser focus in delivering our promising late-stage pipeline that Ian alluded to while we build a sustainable innovation engine to refill our pipeline. I'm very confident that the changes will provide a high return on investment for R&D and differentiated, exciting products for patients worldwide.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Ian, I just wanted some clarification. You said something in your prepared remarks that confused me. You said that the whole is greater than the sum of parts, and based on our calculations, the whole is trading or priced right now well below the sum of parts. So, if you could provide clarification, and as you make decisions about the right composition of businesses, are you considering what these businesses might be worth as separate entities or as the part?

And then, if you do decide to spin those businesses, whether they are non-core or core, such as what I would consider the generics businesses, would you use those proceeds to return to shareholders? And on that topic, do you view share repurchases as providing intrinsic value to shareholders and are you willing to use it to substantially increase earnings per share? Thanks.

IAN READ: Thanks, Jami. I think there were three questions there. So, on the portfolio, I think the comment I made was that I believe that the whole has to be more than the sum of the parts, and that I'm focused on ensuring that it is.

We will review all businesses from the point of view of what capital they require to be successful growing businesses, and what are the alternative uses between those being used for the capital, and are the businesses better off in Pfizer or outside of Pfizer from the point of view of returning value to shareholders. And regarding what we would do if we were to generate cash from those transactions, we will apply it in the best way to improve return to shareholders, if we do that. And -- was there a third question?

FRANK D'AMELIO: It was, how do we view buybacks?

IAN READ: Look, I view buybacks as one of the ways we return value to shareholders, and certainly you need to look at that in the context of where you are in the moment, where the dividend yield is, where the debt is, what the alternative uses of the cash are, and, you know, we take those decisions on an ongoing basis to focus on maximizing return. Frank, do you want to add something?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. And giving prevailing market conditions, we view buybacks as an attractive investment opportunity and a prudent use of our capital. So, we'll be very opportunistic as we buy back our shares, as market conditions warrant.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, Inc..

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: A couple of questions. Many of the 2012 guidance elements look decent, but the one area that kind of surprises me is SG&A, and I guess I could say the same thing with 2011 SG&A. In the setting of a big merger like Wyeth, I would've expected more reductions in this line item, and I'm just wondering if you can describe in more detail what's keeping it on the flatter side.

And then, second question is I think previously you've talked about getting back to a net cash position by 2012. If you said that again and I missed it, I'm sorry, but are you still committed to that target or might you leave more debt on the books to do things like share buybacks?

IAN READ: Thank you, Tim. I'll try and take a stab at the SG&A, and then let Frank talk about the net cash position.

So, it's -- we look at SG&A very carefully. We look at it from bottom up through the point of view of what do the brands need to continue to grow or to give a return that's acceptable as we spend against those brands. We look at it in the context of what we need to do to compete in emerging markets, which is not a trivial exercise as we go from 2,000 to 3,000 to 4,000 reps in China, as we invest in our brands and these opportunities, and we look at it from a topside point of view as to how does that compare with the competitors in the marketplace, and we do it by country by country and we do it overall.

So it's not -- I am very attentive to the amount of money we're spending in SG&A, and I believe with our modeling that we are doing that the SG&A percentage as a percentage of our sales is well within the industry norms as of 2012. And we will continue to look at that, and believe me, one of the frequent conversations we have as a leadership team is how do we build in continuous improvement and how do we build in go-to-market strategies to make sure that our SG&A is as efficient as possible. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: And just to punctuate Ian's point on the SI&A, some of the areas we continue to invest is we are continuing to expand in emerging markets. There's the U.S. healthcare reform fee, which is now -- fee, which is reclassified to SI&A in 2011. We have planned investments for some of our new products like Prevnar 13 and some of our late-stage assets in the pipeline, and we will continue to invest in Lipitor in markets where it continues to have patent protection, like Europe and Japan. So these are just some of the examples.

But if you peel it down a layer, if you look at our field force in China, we added 1,000 reps during 2010 versus 2009. We are in 220 cities versus 177 cities, so that's the kind of investment that you see showing up in the SI&A line.

On the net cash, my answer to that is I don't view that as a target that we have to achieve. And if we see better uses of our capital, we'll use the capital and cash to basically get the best return for our shareholders. So, the short answer is no, I don't view that as a must deliver on target. I view that as, along the way, if we see better opportunities to deploy our capital and get a better return, that's what we're going to do.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi Investment Research.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Thanks for taking the questions, and congratulations on the results. Ian, first question for you. Over the next six to 12 months, obviously there's a lot going on, but can you maybe just outline for us what your top three priorities will be as you look at the business?

And then, second question, on your Diversified segment, is it possible just to get an update? I think your strategic review on the Capsugel business completes by the end of first quarter, where you are in that process, and then just your thoughts on the returns on nutritional and consumer and your thoughts for potentially divesting those assets. Thanks.

IAN READ: Yes, so top priorities, John -- thank you for the congratulations on the results.

The top priorities, I think I sort of described them, but I'll do it again is, one, is work with Mikael in research to really make sure that we are on track to turn around an innovative core. I think that's an essential medium- to long-term effort, and taking the expenses out and reshaping R&D while minimizing disruption is going to be -- it's going to be really important.

The second is to look at the capital allocation, to look at our businesses, and make a decision and a recommendation to the Board as to what I see as the structure in the businesses that Pfizer will progress in the future. So, those are two pretty big tasks, which we -- myself and the leadership team are going to be focused on, and I think that's about all I want to say on that, and I'll hand it over to Frank to make some comments on Diversified.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And on Capsugel, John, our strategic -- exploring strategic alternatives continues, and we continue to expect to complete that by the end of the first quarter.

And then, on consumer and nutri returns, I think the way to think about that, and we've said this -- I've said this previously is they generate very good returns, but returns that aren't at the same level as, I'll call it, our Biopharmaceutical business. That said, all of those returns are blended into the guidance that we're providing for 2011 and 2012, which has operating margins in the high 30s to low 40s for 2012.

IAN READ: And you know, we see those businesses as strong businesses with growth. So, I want to evaluate them and give them, all of them, an opportunity to see how strong they can be for Pfizer.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: A couple of questions. Ian, first of all, can you talk about your view of the generics business, whether it's in the United States or whether it's more the branded generic business overseas, and how aggressive you'd like to be in building that out?

And then, second, can we get a little more color on Prevnar in the quarter? Were there particular areas of strength? Were there any one-off tenders, and just things like that?

And then, third, last quarter you had mentioned there were some issues in Russia. Can you address what's going on there? And then, just more broadly, talk about what was the growth in the emerging markets because there was some type of readjustment with Korea, so I was curious what the underlying growth was for the full emerging markets. Thanks.

IAN READ: Okay, Marc. I'll make some general comments on generics, and ask David to pick up the other comments you asked on emerging markets, and I'll ask Geno to comment on Prevnar.

So, my view of generics is that we're in -- in fact, we're in three types of markets. We're in a pure generic market, which is mainly in the United States and Europe. We're in a branded generic market in most of the emerging markets, i.e., these are brands that have been established. They're established by physician detailing, and their value is both the loyalty of the physician and the loyalty of the patient and the quality that's behind those brands. And then, we're in a third segment, which is trade generics.

So each one of these needs to be identified differentially. We need to look at it from -- in different theaters of operation. There's a different attractiveness to the business in emerging markets, where it is more complementary to our branded and our core business. And we need to look at the capital that's required, and as I mentioned earlier, I think one of the core strategic decisions we had to take is how do we continue to fuel that business beyond the organic transfer of molecules in Pfizer's pipeline.

And that's -- we've opted up to now to do that via partnering and licensing, and we need to see if that's a viable strategy going forward or if we need to change our strategic point of view on that. We're very careful with that business, we're careful on net profitability. It's a different type of business from innovative core, and we look at it basically on operating margin. So, it contributes substantially on that level to cash flow and to profits.

So with that, I'd pass it over to David to add any comments on the growth rates in Russia and that perspective.

DAVID SIMMONS: Thank you, Ian. I'll touch on one point on the generics market, and then go into the emerging markets' response. As Ian very, very clearly laid out the three types of generic market classifications, I would add that we believe we can drive growth across all three of those segments.

Obviously, the branded segment that's driven by physician decisions leverages Pfizer's core capabilities and commercial infrastructure the most, but even in commodity markets, there are spot opportunities for us to do business, as we've learned through utilizing our Greenstone apparatus in the U.S. and some of the Aurobindo licensing deals we've done. So we see growth opportunities across all three segments, is the point I'd make there.

On the emerging-markets growth question, on a like-for-like basis, including Wyeth and Pfizer Q4 sales in 2009, we grew 10% in Q4 2010. We're bullish on the opportunities to continue this trend. There will be quarter-to-quarter variability, so this will go up and down over time. But as a generalized trend, we do expect to achieve this type of growth.

Now, saying this, there's a key determinant in this, and this gets back to the generics part. We have to perform well in emerging markets, both in our innovative segment of our portfolio, which we're currently doing. All segments of our innovative portfolio are growing faster than the underlying market for those products, but at the same time, we have to develop our generics capabilities in these same markets.

Without a strong generics capability, we don't believe we can meet or exceed underlying market growth, so we've got to get both of those fronts right, and that's clearly what our plans of action are laying out to do.

IAN READ: Geno? Thank you, David.

GENO GERMANO: Yes, with regard to Prevnar, in the fourth quarter, we had a very good quarter. The majority of the upside on -- for the quarter came from the U.S., where we continued to capture catch-up patient opportunities and realize incremental price benefit from 2010 versus 2009 with now a 13-Valent product in the market, and also there was an uptick in replenishing inventories.

As you know, last year in the fourth quarter, we actually depleted inventories in anticipation of the 13-Valent launch, and so we see a quarter-over-quarter uptick in inventories in the fourth quarter.

Beyond the U.S., we saw continued growth in European markets, strong growth in Japan. We started to fulfill a tender in Turkey. We won back some regions in Canada that had gone to our competitor earlier in the year, but overall, just a good continued performance across the globe.

IAN READ: Frank, do you want to add some comments (multiple speakers)

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, let me give the overall growth rates for legacy Pfizer, and then I'll also just touch on Korea and Russia, because I think that was part of the question, too.

So if you look at legacy Pfizer, for the quarter, emerging markets grew 3%. For the year, 5%. If you look at the BRIC-MT markets for the quarter, legacy Pfizer grew 5%. For the year, 9%.

And remember, we had some headwind relative to some pricing pressure in some of the markets, as well as the impact of certain LOEs. For example, Lipitor lost exclusivity in August and Viagra in June, both in Brazil. So, those are numbers that include the impact of those items.

Korea is already normalized in all of those numbers, so we basically made it all apples to apples, so it's in both the 2010 number and the 2009 number, so Korea is captured in those numbers.

And then, Russia. Russia, we had a tough quarter. If you look at the year-over-year numbers, the sales were down. That was really driven by some of the emerging-market pricing pressure that we talked about on the last earnings call.

IAN READ: Thank you, Frank.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann & Company.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Just a couple of quick questions. As we think about SG&A and the composition of SG&A, can you just discuss what percentage is currently in emerging markets and at what rate -- what inflationary rate you're assuming for those businesses?

It seems like you're undergoing price pressure and cuts in markets like Brazil and investing in SG&A in those markets, and I'm just kind of wondering what the trade-off is and how we should envision operating margins moving in the emerging markets going forward, given inflationary pressures that we're seeing in other markets.

And then, another question, just in terms of preserving the Lipitor brand at least during the period of generic exclusivity, what exactly -- what plans are you implementing? Is there a house brand strategy, sort of similar to what Merck executed with Zocor? Is that a tool in your quiver? And what other methods can you use to kind of preserve Pfizer's Lipitor sales?

And then, just as a final question, would you envision -- as you look at the portfolio and the shutdown of certain discovery areas, would you envision spinning out smaller biotech-style companies, maybe partnering with investors on that front from some of your internally-developed assets? I seem to remember a very interesting CETP inhibitor. Two of your competitors are moving forward there. And Pfizer has one that I think that was developed by Pharmacia that certainly could be moved forward, but obviously there are plenty of other assets outside of that. Thanks.

IAN READ: Thank you, Seamus. Well, let me see if I can remember all of the questions.

On the portfolio issue, absolutely, if we decide to discontinue internal research, we'll be interested in partnering or out-licensing or looking for creative ways of generating value from those assets, including all the types of suggestions you made.

On the SG&A, I'll make an initial comment, and then ask Frank to pick it up. I would say on the SG&A, we look at this market by market and competitive set by competitive set, so in Brazil, we'd be adjusting our SG&A to take into account the effects of either pricing or of patent expiration, and certainly in the competitive context of Brazil and in the sense it makes an appropriate return on investment. The same in China, the same in India, the same in Korea, the same in Turkey.

I would say that markets like Turkey and China, while there are -- we have pricing pressures, and Brazil as well. While we have pricing pressures, the flexibility, the relationship between demand and price is extremely elastic, so that price reductions are normally compensated by aggressive volume growths. This is certainly true in China where the pent-up demand in China is absolutely enormous for quality health care.

So, with that, I'll ask Frank to comment on any more issues on there, and then, on Lipitor, I just want to make a short comment on that. We are investing appropriately behind Lipitor as we move towards LOE. We have robust strategies to handle the peri- and post-LOE. Clearly, they are competitive in nature, and I really don't want to go into any more details on that. Frank, do you want to talk about?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, I'll just punctuate a couple of the points that were made, that we really do look at how to invest the SI&A on a market-by-market basis. And there are clearly markets -- in particular, the BRIC-MT markets where I'd say we've been biasing and increasing our overall investment because of the opportunities that exist, and Ian mentioned China, which is one of the areas where we've clearly been increasing our investment.

You mentioned margins, and the way to think about emerging-market margins is the gross margins will be lower than, I'll call it, our kind of traditional branded pharmaceutical margins, but those revenues also have lower expenses, and so the key there is operating margins, which are very, very consistent with our overall business and factored into our 2012 targets.

IAN READ: Yes, and on the SG&A, just to complete that, I mean, I don't think necessarily it's totally visible to the Street that we have been aggressively shifting resources out of the United States as we face LOEs, as the marketplace changes, as we adapt the way we go to market in the U.S. to more of a group practice, less individual calls and resources.

I mean, I think our U.S. total field force over the last seven years or so have probably gone down by 50%. Similar numbers in Europe, but that's not quite as dramatic as there, and we've reinvested in emerging markets. So, this is a continually ongoing review we do where we place our resources. Chuck?

CHUCK TRIANO: Good. Operator, I think we have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen and Company.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: A couple of questions. First, regarding the 2012 revenue guidance, how much of the $2 billion reduction is due to eliminating future business development transactions and how much is attributable to market conditions? What market conditions are you specifically referring to in the release? And I assume it is still fully possible that the previously-contemplated business development transactions come through. So there's now upside opportunity in your 2012 revenue guidance, and I'm wondering if you agree with that.

And then, the second question is, is your JAK-1/3 product still on track to be filed in the second half of 2012, or might it be earlier? And do you believe the RA market is elastic such that a lower JAK price will significantly increase units sold or is priced less relevant to where it's used, in your opinion?

IAN READ: So on the -- thank you. On the JAK, we're finishing the trials toward the mid part of the year, and we will file as soon as we have the filing ready.

The pricing elasticity, I think most markets have certain elasticity. I think how that product is priced depends on the ultimate profile and the value it's delivering to patients and payers, and we'll take that decision as the profile develops.

With that, I would pass it over to Frank for any other comments.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So Steve, let me just run the numbers on the 2012 targets. The previous target was 65.2 to 67.7. We took it down to 63 to 65.5, so 2.2 billion reduction lower end and top end of the range, which was the 2 billion that you mentioned. Most of that comes from the removal of the future business development. The majority of that reduction comes from future business development.

So to your point about is there upside to that, to the extent that we did new, future, meaningful business development, that would not be in the number, and then we would adjust the targets upward for that kind of a transaction.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, everybody, for your time.

IAN READ: Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ahp : Wyeth Ltd | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
cbrand : Branding | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110215e7210018k
  


 HD
 Q3  2010  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,813 words
   PD
2 November 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's third-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's third-quarter 2010 performance, 2010 financial guidance, and 2012 long-range targets.

   TD
I'm here with Jeff Kindler, Frank D'Amelio, Ian Read, and other members of our leadership team.

The financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance third-quarter 2010, located in the investor presentations tab at the lower right-hand corner of this page.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, and the factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2009 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, November 2, 2010. These reports are also available at our website at Pfizer.com in the investors' SEC filings section.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Kindler. Jeff?

JEFF KINDLER, CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Chuck, and hello, everyone.

I'd like to start by making five key points. First, for the third consecutive full quarter since we closed the Wyeth deal, we are reporting solid operating performance. Second, given this performance and our continued confidence in the business, we are increasing both the top end and the bottom end of our 2010 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range.

Third, we are once again reaffirming the financial targets that we've set out for 2012. It's important to emphasize that we are raising this year's guidance and reaffirming the 2012 targets despite uncertainty in the global economy, strong competitive challenges, and significant changes in the regulatory and public policy environment across the markets in which we operate.

Fourth, consistent with our commitment to enhancing total shareholder value, we are continuing to return cash to our owners. During the second and third quarters of this year, we repurchased a total of $1 billion in stock at an average price of $16.40 per share.

And finally, fifth, also consistent with that commitment, we are on track to pay nearly $6 billion in dividends this year. As we have previously stated, barring any unforeseen circumstances, we expect the Board of Directors to raise the dividend in December and we continue to target a dividend payout ratio comparable to the current industry average in about three years.

Now, on the subject of capital allocation, I want to highlight a particularly important point illustrated this quarter. As we said we would do, we have continued to deploy your capital in disciplined business development activities that allow us to shape our balanced business portfolio in order to maximize shareholder value, and I'd like to spend a few minutes this morning discussing the deals we announced since the beginning of September in the context of the balanced business portfolio that I described on last quarter's earnings call.

First, let me review briefly the context. We closed the Wyeth acquisition just over a year ago, and since then, we have moved quickly to integrate the companies, to achieve our planned cost synergies, and to deliver solid financial performance from the combined company. The people and assets that Wyeth brought to us, together with the changes we had made in our leadership, culture, and operating model over the last three years, have positioned us to deliver three important things -- one, producing steady, reliable, adjusted earnings growth over time; two, returning cash to shareholders through dividends and buybacks; and three, making disciplined internal and external investments in innovative new treatments and cures that produce good returns on your capital.

The foundation for these results is a dynamic portfolio of businesses, products, geographies, and areas of research that balances both our risks and our opportunities. That portfolio enables us to advance our strategies of growing our patent-protected portfolio in priority therapeutic areas, in vaccines and biologics, in established products, in emerging markets, and in appropriate diversified businesses.

Now, each of the five actions that we recently announced significantly advances these strategies and helps us further balance our portfolio of businesses and products, and let me show you what I mean. In primary care, which currently accounts for about one-third of our revenues, we have identified pain as one of our invest-to-win therapeutic areas because of our strong capabilities in this area and because of the growing market for this condition of unmet medical need. Our pending acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals will provide an excellent complement to our current portfolio of pain treatments, which ranges from Advil and ThermaCare to Celebrex and Lyrica, as well as several promising pipeline candidates.

King is a leader in new formulations of pain treatments designed to discourage common methods of misuse and abuse. King's assets will provide Pfizer with multiple new drug delivery platforms, as well as potential long-term upside in our primary care, established products, as well as in our animal health business.

Now in specialty care, which generates almost a quarter of our revenues, we have strengthened our presence in the growing orphan diseases market by acquiring FoldRx, a privately-held drug discovery and clinical development company.

FoldRx brings us an oral, once-daily, small-molecule candidate with the potential to treat a fatal genetic neurodegenerative disease for which a liver transplant currently is the only available treatment. It brings us greater understanding of protein misfolding, which is increasingly recognized as an underlying cause in many chronic degenerative diseases.

Meanwhile, in established products, which accounts for about an eighth of our revenues, our alliance with Biocon, India's leading biotech company, will advance our strategies in biosimilars and will position us competitively in the diabetes market over time. This is important in the developing world where patients' uninterrupted access to insulin is often very difficult, as well as in developed countries like the United States, where the CDC just announced that up to one-third of the population could be living with diabetes within a generation.

Turning to our emerging markets business, which produces about an eighth of our revenues, we agreed last month to acquire 40% of Laboratorio Teuto Brasileiro, a privately-held company in Brazil with approximately 250 branded and unbranded generic pharmaceuticals in more than 400 presentations. This partnership will give us access to a large network of independent distributors that reach more than 36,000 pharmacies in rural and suburban Brazil, and customers that Pfizer is not currently reaching.

This agreement also includes the opportunity to commercialize Teuto's products outside Brazil, which we believe offers substantial promise for both our emerging markets and our established products business.

Finally, within our diversified businesses, which accounts for about an eighth of our revenues, we announced that we are reviewing strategic alternatives for Capsugel. I've said before that review of the role, fit, and value creation of each of our businesses is part of our ongoing review of our dynamic business portfolio. We will continue to optimize our portfolio of businesses and products in order to maximize value for our shareholders. Capsugel represents a unique business with strong potential for growth outside of Pfizer, and now is the right time to undertake this review.

It's worth noting that each of these business development actions came about as a result of the speed, focus, and agility that characterize our business unit operating model. Around here we use the phrase, the power of scale, the spirit of small. These announcements demonstrated that concept in action.

Because our respective business unit leaders and their teams understand their distinct customers, marketplaces, and competitors, they saw the chance to create value and they moved quickly to bring these opportunities forward. For our part, corporate-level leadership ensured that the right hurdle rates were applied, that there was appropriate discipline around price and terms, and that Pfizer's scale and resources were brought to bear when appropriate. Once the deals are closed, the leaders of the relevant business units will be accountable for the success of each of these deals.

Now in addition to our business development activities, we continue, of course, to advance our late-stage development pipeline and we have several important milestones ahead. Next week at the American College of Rheumatology, we will provide an update on the development of tasocitinib, our oral JAK inhibitor, and we will present Phase III data from our initial study in people with rheumatoid arthritis.

In addition, we remain on track to submit regulatory applications for an adult indication for Prevnar 13 in the U.S. and Europe by the end of this year. Pfizer has completed its Phase III trials in support of these regulatory submissions.

With respect to apixaban, our Factor Xa inhibitor, based on the strength of the preliminary Phase III AVERROES study data, our partner, Bristol-Myers Squibb, announced last week that the companies have initiated a rolling submission with the FDA under the trade name [ellaquese] for people with atrial fibrillation that is unsuitable for treatment with warfarin.

And finally, in the first half of next year, we anticipate filing with the FDA for crizotinib, our novel personalized agent for people with lung cancer.

To wrap up, I believe our results this quarter, like each quarter since we closed the Wyeth deal, demonstrate that the changes we have been making at Pfizer have enabled us to deliver steady, consistent adjusted earnings results, to return cash to shareholders, and to make disciplined investments in medicines that will produce good returns for our shareholders. And we are doing so consistently, despite global economic headwinds, currency fluctuations, competitive challenges, and regulatory and public policy uncertainties.

That is because today our Company has a dynamic portfolio of businesses that represents a good balance of risks and opportunities across products, geographies, technologies, and customers. We continuously review our portfolio. We are relentlessly focused on cost productivity and capital discipline, and our culture emphasizes focus and accountability. We have the benefits that come with the scale and resources of a large company, but our business unit operating model allows us to move with the agility necessary to seize valuable opportunities like the ones I described this morning.

With that, I'll ask Frank to review our third-quarter results.

FRANK D'AMELIO, SVP, CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Jeff. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast.

Now, let's move on to the third-quarter financial results. The $4.6 billion, or 39%, year-over-year increase in third-quarter 2010 revenues was primarily attributable to the addition of legacy Wyeth products, which favorably impacted revenues by $5.2 billion, or 44%, partially offset by a $458 million, or 4%, decrease in revenues from legacy Pfizer products and a $160 million, or 1%, negative impact foreign exchange.

The year-over-year decrease in third-quarter 2010 reported net income and reported diluted EPS was due to a non-cash impairment charge resulting from updated forecasts of certain Wyeth assets compared with the fair values estimated at the closing of the acquisition last year. This pretax charge of approximately $1.5 billion consists of IP R&D charges of about $715 million and brand assets and developed technology charges of approximately $750 million.

These updated cash flow projections are based on the most recently projected development of regulatory timeframes and the current market environments for brand assets and their planned investment support. I want to point out that we do not expect these updated projections to have an impact on our 2012 revenue or adjusted diluted EPS targets, which we are reaffirming today.

It's also important to remember that while there have been acquired assets whose projected values have decreased, there are acquired assets whose projected values have increased as well. However, these increases are not reflected in our third-quarter financial statements because current accounting rules require that we record asset value decreases or impairments, but do not allow us to record asset value increases subsequent to day zero.

In addition, reported net income and reported diluted EPS in the quarter were negatively impacted by a charge for asbestos litigation of $701 million.

The increase in adjusted income and adjusted diluted EPS were primarily due to revenues from legacy Wyeth products, which were partially offset by expenses associated with the addition of Wyeth operations, lower aggregate revenues from legacy Pfizer products, and higher net interest expense. Also, it's important to remember that both reported and adjusted diluted EPS were affected by the increased number of shares outstanding compared with the year-ago quarter because of shares issued to partially fund the Wyeth acquisition.

Third-quarter adjusted total costs were negatively impacted, primarily by the addition of Wyeth operations, which was partially offset by a 4% positive impact from foreign exchange. The increase in adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue from 15.4% to 18.3% was primarily due to the change in the mix of products and businesses resulting from the addition of Wyeth operations, which was partially offset by the positive impact of foreign exchange.

The 43% increase in adjusted SI&A expenses and 33% expense increase in R&D expenses were also driven by the addition of Wyeth operations. Also, driven by our continued investment in our late-stage development portfolio, which contributed to this increase.

In the third quarter 2010, foreign exchange had a negative impact of $160 million on revenues and a positive impact of $298 million on adjusted total cost. The net effect of foreign exchange resulted in a $0.01 favorable impact to adjusted diluted EPS.

Revenues from our biopharmaceutical business increased $3.3 billion, or 31%, in the third quarter with operational growth of 33%, of which $3.9 billion, or 37%, was attributable to legacy Wyeth products, which was partially offset by a $468 million, or 4%, decrease in revenues from legacy Pfizer products.

It's important to remember that Pfizer's annual international calendar ends on November 30, and as a result, third quarter includes international results for June, July, and August. As we previously stated on our second-quarter earnings call, June was an unfavorable quarter for the euro, and therefore, this negative impact was reflected in our third-quarter results.

Also, I want to point out that within the biopharmaceutical units, legacy Pfizer's year-over-year operational performance continues to be impacted by the loss of exclusivity of certain products, including Lipitor, which lost exclusivity in Canada in May of 2010 and Spain in July of 2010.

Third-quarter diversified revenues increased approximately $1.3 billion, or 151%, year over year, due to the addition of Wyeth products. The impact of foreign exchange on diversified revenues in the third quarter was immaterial.

Third-quarter revenues generated in emerging markets, which include both legacy Pfizer and legacy Wyeth biopharmaceutical and diversified operations, increased 66% versus the third quarter of 2009, due to the significant contribution of legacy Wyeth products. It's important to note that over the same period, Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico, and Turkey contributed a combined 46% to the overall growth in emerging markets. And legacy Pfizer biopharmaceutical revenues in these BRIC-MT markets grew 5% operationally in the third quarter and 10% operationally year to date.

Based on our year-to-date performance and outlook for the remainder of 2010, we are updating the ranges of our 2010 guidance. We are tightening the revenue range to $67 billion to $68 billion, decreasing and tightening the range of adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue to 18.5% to 19%, tightening our adjusted SI&A expense range to $19.2 billion to $19.7 billion, tightening the adjusted R&D expense range to $9.1 billion to $9.5 billion, expecting adjusted other deductions -- adjusted other deductions to be approximately $1 billion, maintaining our guidance for the effective tax rate on adjusted income at approximately 30%, decreasing the reported diluted EPS range to $0.84 to $0.89, and finally, we are increasing and tightening our adjusted diluted EPS range to $2.17 to $2.22.

As we previously stated and forecasted, the adjusted diluted EPS range absorbs EFFEXOR's loss of exclusivity in the U.S. in July, two fewer selling days in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter, and Lipitor's loss of exclusivity in Canada in May of 2010 and Spain in July 2010. In addition, the range now reflects the impact of our recently announced collaboration with Biocon and the upfront payment that was included.

Consequently, we expect these factors in the aggregate to negatively impact our fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.06 $0.07, which has been factored into our 2010 guidance.

Based on our confidence in our future business performance, we are reaffirming all elements of our 2012 financial targets. These targets incorporate the anticipated impact of U.S. healthcare legislation, as does our 2010 guidance. And our 2012 targets continue to assume a modest level of business development activities, up to 5% of our revenue target.

So moving on to key takeaways, despite the challenging economic environment, we achieved solid overall operational performance while at the same time advancing the integration of Wyeth with minimal business disruption. We have tightened the ranges of all components of our 2010 financial guidance, including increasing and narrowing the adjusted diluted EPS range, $2.17 to $2.22, and we have reaffirmed all of our 2012 financial targets. We remain on target to deliver our anticipated cost reductions, including achieving approximately 50% in 2010.

During the third quarter, we repurchased approximately $500 million of Pfizer shares and we will continue to be opportunistic with share repurchases as market conditions warrant.

Finally, we are advancing our strategic priorities through our recently announced review of strategic alternatives for our Capsugel business, collaboration with Biocon and pending collaboration with Teuto, and acquisition of FoldRx and pending acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals. Now, I'll turn it back over to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks for the review, Frank. At this point, operator, if we could please poll for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Chris Schott, JPMorgan Chase & Co..

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Just a first question, I guess a couple of questions on Prevnar. First, ex-U.S., it looks like much of the franchise has now converted over to -- or a decent portion to the 13 version of Prevnar. Yet, we haven't seen a significant ramp in (technical difficulty) relative to legacy Wyeth levels. Just elaborate a little bit more what's happening with Prevnar internationally, maybe talk about price dynamics, as well as the impact that Synflorix is having on the business.

My second question was on gross margins. Even adjusting for the FX benefit this quarter, where you picked up a very strong result in the quarter considering the loss of EFFEXOR, was there anything unusual here or just are we starting to see some of the benefits of restructuring or is there anything else we should be aware of? And as a follow-up to that, how are you thinking about trough gross margins as we consider the patent expiration of Lipitor late next year? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: Ian?

IAN READ, GROUP PRESIDENT BIOPHARMACEUTICAL BUSINESSES, PFIZER INC.: Chris, on Prevnar internationally, we are approved in 72 countries. We've been launched in 45. We're on 22 NIPs, and there is about, I think, 11 more coming.

I think the volume is doing well. In markets where it is the physician's choice on Prevnar, we have about a 70% to 80% share of that marketplace. And I would say on the overall emerging markets, the only -- the -- we are winning where we expect to win and probably the only market where we haven't won, which is a disappointment, was Brazil, where Synflorix took the NIP in Brazil.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And on the gross margin question, Chris, let me just run some numbers and then I'll answer the question.

Our cost of sales guidance at the beginning of the year was 19% to 20%. We lowered that to 18.5% to 19% this quarter. Now for the quarter, cost of sales was 18.3%. If you remove the benefits of foreign exchange that they had on COGS this quarter, 18.3% becomes 19.7%. But the overall, I'll call it, strength in our cost of goods sold is really being driven by our restructuring, our focus on cost reduction, all of the things that we've been doing to really manage our cost structure.

So, nothing unusual to answer your question specifically. It's really based on the actions that we've been taking.

In terms of beyond Lipitor, the last part of your question, I think if you look at the rhythm of the business and where the growth is, the growth will put some pressure on our gross margins, but not on our operating margins. If you look at our targets for 2012, we have operating margins in the high 30s to low 40s, which is where our operating margins are today. So, even so some of that growth will have lower gross margins than it does today, they will have lower expenses, and we believe we can maintain our operating margins.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Just to continue on Prevnar, can you talk about -- it seemed very strong in the U.S.. Was there anything unusual there?

And then, on inventories for any of the products just versus second quarter or third quarter, were there any major movements?

And then, maybe also if you could talk about Lipitor a little bit in the rest of the world and the emerging markets. It seemed a little weaker than we were expecting. Thanks.

IAN READ: Prevnar in the U.S. was nothing unusual in the third quarter. It's mainly driven by the impact of the price increase and the impact of the catch-up on demand. So, it was pretty much in line with what we expected. No major inventory movements on Prevnar in the U.S. in the quarter. And then --

JEFF KINDLER: Lipitor.

IAN READ: Lipitor internationally was impacted by the LOE in Canada and the LOE in Spain, and in the quarter it had about a negative $200 million impact on us. It was slightly faster than we had expected.

Both those markets have been traditionally slower to see brand erosion. Spain is a brand-loyal market and Canada was normally less aggressive than the U.S.. We didn't see that with Lipitor in this quarter. So, that was a $200 million impact, and overall in the international markets, it's been somewhat impacted in Eastern Europe and parts of Asia with price decreases.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi Investment Research.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: It just has to do with one of the statements in your press release. Can you just expand maybe a little bit on the price pressures and help us -- help quantify what you saw in Eastern European countries and markets in terms of price pressures?

You also indicated that there were some wholesaler purchasing patterns that obviously influenced the ex-US -- weaker ex-US sales results, and then, the third part of that same question relates to the emerging markets, which appeared to be flat ex-China. Just any additional granularity or commentary on that. Thanks.

IAN READ: So, why don't I take, Chris -- sorry, John. Why don't I take the emerging markets first?

They were flat in the quarter, and we've always said emerging markets would be volatile. If you look at the, as Frank mentioned, at the BRIC markets or the BRIC-MT markets, up 5% in the quarter, up 10% year to date. The impact in the third quarter across all emerging markets was really focused in Eastern Europe and Russia with a little bit of Asia.

We are seeing price increases in Romania, Czech Republic, Taiwan, Thailand, and inventory -- or wholesale inventory reductions specifically in Russia as they adjust to the economic situation.

We expect to see some softness continuing, I think, in Russia in the fourth quarter. But overall, when we look at it and take out the price decreases and the inventory adjustments, our unit growth is running at about 10% in the emerging markets.

And then, when you look at that and you look at an interesting fact, if you compare the launch sequencing between developed markets and emerging markets, we have about 22 launches in the emerging markets that we will do in 2011 and 2012, which is a very different pattern from the launches in the developed markets.

JEFF KINDLER: And if I could just punctuate something Ian said, that typically in Europe we expect pricing pressure in the low single digits. On the last earnings call, we talked about that being in the mid-single digits, and the second half of the year, that is indeed what we are experiencing. We are experiencing pricing pressure in Europe in the mid-single digits overall.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, Inc..

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I'm not sure if anyone is there to answer pipeline questions, but I've got a couple, which is on the JAK-3 inhibitor. We have data coming up November 10. I'm wondering when the next Phase III is likely to report out beyond November 10, and also, are we likely to see any interim radiographic data report out in the first half of 2011?

And on Prevnar 13 in adults, I'm just wondering when we might see that immunogenicity data that you will file on, and can you reiterate your thoughts about whether FDA will require the capita [outcome] study for approval, which I think Wyeth used to say was not going to be required.

IAN READ: On the Prevnar adults, we're filing in the fourth quarter. We expect you will see the results in the first half of 2011 and we believe we can file without the capita data.

And the other question was on tasocitinib. Most of the other trials will report out in 2011 and in the second half of 2011, and I believe the structured data will report out in the first half of 2011.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A question both for Jeff and to Frank. Jeff, in relation to your plans to consider alternatives for Capsugel, does this signal a change in your view about keeping the other non-core assets, such as animal health -- animal health, consumer, and nutritionals?

And how much time are you giving yourself? I appreciated your opening comments. It sounds like you're obviously managing the portfolio dynamically, but how much time are you giving yourself to make a decision with respect to these and other assets, especially given where the multiple is in the stock, and I think that would beg the question that maybe investors don't appreciate some of these other assets.

And my other question, both for you and to Frank, is that it is very good to see the continued share repurchase programs, but $500 million still reflects a relatively lackluster pace, especially given your low stock P/E multiple and $20 billion in operating cash flow. So my question is this. Is this the pace that we should come to expect? Or do you see an opportunity to be more aggressive, especially in light of record low borrowing costs? And I would also like to know how you think the IRRs on whatever M&A you might be considering would compare to the IRRs on share repurchase programs. Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Jami, I'll take the first question. As I've said before, my view hasn't changed about this. I said previously, and I said it again this morning, that we are engaged in a continuous review of the role of each of our businesses, not frankly just even the ones you mentioned.

Every business has to demonstrate on an ongoing basis that it's creating shareholder value in accordance with the strategic purpose of that business, with the return on capital that it's producing, that it's creating more value inside Pfizer than outside Pfizer. That can range from all kinds of alternatives. The Capsugel decision to consider strategic options for it was the result of one such review. And that's our obligation in managing a portfolio of businesses consistent with what I talked about at the last quarter.

So my view on that hasn't changed.

In terms of timing about, that's an ongoing process. I think that's our obligation in managing a portfolio of businesses, and we have had this particular collection of businesses for just about a year. We are continuing to evaluate the opportunities that having these businesses together may create within Pfizer and exploring the degree to which some of the businesses you mentioned may create more value together than in other forms, and we'll continue to do that. And that's an ongoing process and we'll always be engaged in that process, both in terms of potentially looking at businesses for strategic reviews, as well as bringing in businesses like we did with King.

So, I think that's just in the nature of managing what I call a dynamic portfolio of balanced businesses, balanced both in terms of their risks and their opportunities. And I'll let Frank address the share repurchase issue.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, let me just run some numbers first, and then I'll answer the question. So this quarter, we bought back about 30 million shares, $500 million worth of our stock. Last quarter, we also bought back $500 million of our stock, about 30.8 million shares. So about $1 billion of our stock has been repurchased.

By the way, the average price on that $1 billion is about $16.40.

In addition to that $1 billion, we'll be paying out in a dividend this year about $6 billion. So between the stock buyback and dividend this year, directly returning capital to shareholders in the amount of about $7 billion, and significant unforeseen events aside, we expect the Board to approve a dividend increase at our upcoming December meeting.

In terms of what we're going to do going forward, what I would say is buybacks are clearly something we will continue to be opportunistic about as market conditions warrant, and remember, we have other potential uses of our capital like we did this quarter. This past quarter, we committed about $4 billion of cash for business development opportunities, which are the transactions that Jeff talked about, with the biggest piece of that commitment obviously being King Pharmaceuticals.

And then, in terms of the returns on those business development transactions, obviously they're based on projections that we have to execute on, but we will execute and those returns are favorable. So, that's how I think about it.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: As we speak, the FDA is evaluating means for getting advancement in biosimilar pathway, and so I think that, with that in mind, I was wondering if you could disclose what your lead biosimilar programs are and when you plan on giving more details on this business?

And I also wanted to ask you about tanezumab and if you could comment on the status of that regulatory hold, and why other competitive programs may not have been impacted, and your company's interest in pursuing smaller targeted markets like cancer pain.

IAN READ: Taking tanezumab first, we are still working through this little hole with the FDA, and I really can't comment on why other programs -- what the consequence in other programs are, Catherine. We'll continue to work with the FDA through, I think, for three to six months on that, and see what happens.

On the biosimilars, I think our first biosimilar launch is with Protalix into that space, and then we've just signed a deal with Biocon for the insulin biosimilars. And we are targeting about 10 molecules internally and externally that we want to develop. We're going to leverage the resources from Wyeth and the expertise, and I expect the first launches from internally-developed molecules to be round about 2015, 2016.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have a couple questions. First of all, with respect to the meningococcal B vaccine, can you just tell us when you are going to share with the investment community or in some more public fashion the Phase II data, and also what your plans are for Phase III?

And then, second, with respect to foreign exchange, can you just quantify the benefit to EPS in the quarter? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: Sure. I'll let Frank handle the foreign exchange question and Mikael Dolsten will address the vaccine.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Dave, FX negatively affected revenue in the quarter by $160 million, total company; positively affected adjusted total cost by $298 million. Net net, the favorable -- it was a favorable impact to EPS for the quarter of a penny, $0.01.

JEFF KINDLER: Mikael?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, SVP & PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: We discussed some of our Phase II data at the recent Neisseria conference in Canada, and basically what we've shown is very robust immune responses after two and reaching all our set goals after three immunizations.

And we are in the phase of planning for the Phase III studies, based on looking at all the options for trial design in adolescent population. And we feel that we have a robust data set with good efficacy signals and tolerability, and that makes us encouraged to take that decision to go into Phase III planning.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Three brief questions. Two on cash and cash uses. One is, is this final payment to Quigley's, does this put Quigley behind Pfizer in total?

Second, Frank, if you could comment on cash uses. You've laid out -- or you and Jeff have laid out comments around share buyback, dividend, and some corporate development. But what about paying down the existing debt, maybe needing to repatriate less money, and the overall effect or positive effect that may have on tax use?

And then, thirdly, back to meningococcal B, Mikael, if you could actually discuss the rationale for looking at adolescents versus that of infants, at least initially, on meningococcal B, if in fact that is to go forward in Phase III? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Amy, why don't you start with the Quigley question?

AMY SCHULMAN, SVP, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC.: Sure, thank you, and as you know, we recorded a charge in the third quarter related to Quigley. I'd like to just put that in a little bit of context by stepping back and just to make sure everyone is on the same page with respect to the Quigley situation.

As you know, we had previously submitted a plan to the bankruptcy court, and as part of that plan, there was an injunction which remains in place as we work within the parameters of the judge's September 2010 decision. In which -- in the context of denying the confirmation, he set forth a road map for what needs to go forward, and we're working within that roadmap, and we believe that our next hearing in December, we will have satisfied the judge's concerns with respect to the reorganization plan.

So we think that that contribution will satisfy the court and the judge's concern, although it is possible that there will be additional amounts or changes to the plan. But our goal is to move this to finality promptly.

JEFF KINDLER: Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the potential uses of capital, Tony, you have it right. It's no change in my mind from what I've said previously. There's five or six buckets, I will call them major buckets, that we can deploy capital in.

Share buybacks and dividends are clearly one bucket. Business development is another bucket, and debt paydown is another one. The amount of cash that we repatriate is another one, and quite frankly, investing in the business, whether it be new product launches or R&D or our in-line portfolio or our geographic and business unit investments or capital expenditures. So, all those things are potential areas where we can deploy our capital.

From my perspective, what we try to do and what I believe we do is deploy capital in a way that's best from a total shareholder return perspective over time. That's what we've been doing. That's what we will continue to do, and consider all those alternatives as we go forward.

MIKAEL DOLSTEN: Concerning the question of meningococcal B, so there are around 20,000 to 80,000 people that are affected every year, and 2,000 to 8,000 actually -- cases with mortality, and a significant proportion of those are in that adolescent population.

In addition to that, the adolescent population is the real carrier of the meningococcal B bacteria, not the infants. So we think for pronounced reduction of the spread of this bacteria, the adolescent offers both protection for the individual and reduction in the population.

And the final comment is that, as I mentioned, tolerability in adolescents is really good. And if you look at the conference where data from us and one of the competitors are, you will note that in general in the infant, which was presented by another company, there is -- usually has been seen in this field more issues with particular fevers, so we think we have a really good positioning of this new vaccine.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen and Company.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I have two questions. First, a follow-up on the Prevnar 13 adult filing. Since the filing will include capita, would you describe the minimum acceptable efficacy threshold for that filing? How compelling must have been the difference in the number of cases of community-acquired pneumonia in the Prevnar arm versus the placebo arm to justify the filing? And is there any regulatory risk, given that Pfizer apparently does not have data versus an active comparator? So, that's the first question.

Second question is, what share does Ranbaxy have of the Canadian market with its generic Lipitor? How would you describe their ability to supply and what should we learn from that regarding their ability to supply the U.S., critical because, of course, they are the first to file company.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Ian, do you want to clarify about the capita trial?

IAN READ: Sorry, to clarify that, Steve, we will not have capita data when filing. We'll file on immune response and we believe the data will -- is sufficient to file, and so I think we must have been misunderstanding on the capita data being available.

And vis-a-vis Ranbaxy, I really can't comment on what they're doing in Canada.

OPERATOR: Manoj Garg, Soleil-Healthinc Advisors LLC.

MANOJ GARG, ANALYST, SOLEIL-HEALTHINC ADVISORS LLC: This is for Frank or somebody on the mature markets team, two questions. First on EFFEXOR, can you describe how the pricing strategy there and anything that you've learned that would enable or prevent you from utilizing a similar strategy on future expirations?

IAN READ: The pricing strategy on EFFEXOR was -- our pricing strategy was reasonably effective. I think we retained a reasonable portion of the scrips post the launch, and pricing strategies really vary molecule by molecule and circumstance by circumstance. So I don't think it's a one-size-fits-all pricing strategy when you come to generic launches.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann & Company.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: (Technical difficulty) on Lipitor and how that could possibly limit U.S. generic entrance post-November 2011.

JEFF KINDLER: Seamus, we didn't hear the beginning of your question. Could you start again, please?

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: Okay. Can you just tell us how you think about the 2016 API patent on Lipitor and how this could possibly limit U.S. generic entrance post-2011? I know that's the basis of the Ranbaxy settlement.

And then, separately, it's my understanding that Pfizer also has a patent on Viagra that runs considerably longer than the 2012 sort of assumed composition of matter patent expiration. Could you talk a little bit about this patent, and whether or not Pfizer has any plans to prosecute it? Thank you.

IAN READ: I'll start, and Amy may want to add. I don't -- our full expectation is that we will have generic Lipitor in the marketplace post-November 2011.

And on the Viagra patent, the -- from memory, the composition of matter patent goes in 2012, and we have a use patent which we believe is effective and in place in the United States through 2016. So we'll see how the market dynamics work on the strength of the use patent post the composition of matter patent expiration.

CHUCK TRIANO: Operator, I believe we have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Jeff Holford, Jeffries & Company.

JEFF HOLFORD, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: I've got two questions. The first is, can you just talk us a bit more through this revenue range tightening? We've lost $1 billion from the guidance range this year. Just go through the factors a bit more that drive that, and how we should think about 2011, 2012 growth in targets in light of this? How do we have the confidence in the 2012 range, the 2010 range being cut?

And then, just thinking a bit longer term, strategically, I see you're committing to not really pursuing large-scale M&A prior to and during 2012. Does that mean in 2013 potentially Pfizer might be looking once more to a large-scale consolidation in your long-term strategic planning?

JEFF KINDLER: So on the 2010 revenue range, to your point, we tightened the range from what was $67 billion to $69 billion to the latest guidance update, which is $67 billion to $68 billion. So that's the tightening that you're referring to.

Please remember, when we gave that $67 billion to $69 billion, that was the end of January, early February. We did not have factored into the guidance at that time the impacts of healthcare reform in the U.S. or European pricing pressures.

Despite that, we were able to maintain our guidance range that we issued at the beginning of the year, although we did tighten it. So from my perspective, we did exactly what we said we were going to do. We did tighten the range, but we absorbed in that range two items that were fairly significant, neither of which was in the range when we initially disclosed it back at the beginning of the year.

In terms of our 2012 targets, the revenue targets for 2012 now are a range of $65.2 billion to $67.7 billion, and we've said that they assume a modest level of business development, up to 5% of the total, and so if you do the math, 5% on that, call it $3 billion to $3.5 billion, we got about half of that done this past quarter, particularly or primarily from the King acquisition.

We have said, although we never rule out anything, we've said our objective is bolt-on acquisitions in the couple, the billion dollar space focused on emerging markets, established products in our invest-to-win areas. That is our strategy. That continues to be our strategy. So, that's all.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, everybody, for your time this morning.

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ahp : Wyeth Ltd | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
ibioph : Biopharmaceuticals | i2569 : Biotechnology | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cappro : New Product Approvals | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy
   RE
usa : United States | cana : Canada | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101116e6b2001k7
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,879 words
   PD
3 August 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's second-quarter 2010 performance, 2010 financial guidance, and 2012 long range targets. I'm here with Jeff Kindler, Frank D'Amelio, Ian Read and other members of our leadership team.

The financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at www.Pfizer.com in the Investor Presentations tab by clicking on the link Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2010. Also, I would add that this quarter, we have begun providing a more detailed geographic revenue breakdown in our financial tables.

   TD
Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. A reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, August 3, 2010. These reports are available at our website at Pfizer.com in the Investor's SEC filing section.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Kindler. Jeff?

JEFF KINDLER, CEO AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Chuck, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with six key points. First, for the second consecutive full quarter since we closed the Wyeth deal, we are reporting strong top and bottom-line results across the business.

Second, we are improving our outlook for the rest of this year. We are now projecting adjusted diluted earnings per share in the upper end of our range.

Third, we are reaffirming every element of our targets for 2012 despite the headwinds of global economic challenges, US healthcare reform, European pricing challenges, and foreign exchange fluctuations.

Fourth, as I discussed last quarter, we recognize that returning cash to our shareholders is an important part of how we deploy your capital. Consistent with that, we are today reporting on our repurchase of common stock during the quarter.

Fifth, also consistent with that important principle, we are today reaffirming that barring significant unforeseen events, we expect our Board to approve an increase in the dividend at its December meeting.

And sixth, we are announcing today that, in light of our current assessment of the Company's solid financial position and its strong operational prospects, we're now targeting a dividend payout ratio comparable to the current industry average in about three years.

Looking ahead, we intend to continue delivering strong, steady, and consistent results, even in times of economic uncertainty, and even as different parts of our business face different challenges, and seize the different opportunities offered by healthcare needs around the world. We believe we are well-positioned to do this based on the key factors that have driven our performance over the two complete quarter since we acquired Wyeth.

First, a relentless insistence on operational execution produced by our customer-focused, accountable business units. Second, a disciplined deployment of capital to achieve the right returns for the distinct risks and opportunities offered by different areas of medical research, products, end markets, coupled with an ongoing drive across the Company for continuing improvements in productivity. And third, a business mix of products, businesses, geographies, and areas of medical research that balances both our risks and our opportunities.

To reinforce this last point, please take a look at this chart. This chart shows the share of our revenue generated by each business unit during this quarter compared to the same quarter last year before the Wyeth acquisition. I'd like to call your attention to the share represented by our Primary Care Business unit, the blue slice on the pie chart.

This business sells patent-protected Primary Care products in developed countries, including the United States, Western Europe, Japan, Canada, and Australia. Sales of those type of products and those types of markets dominated Pfizer's earnings prospects in the recent past. This chart shows how that is changing significantly.

As you can see, Primary Care generated nearly half of our revenues in the second quarter of last year. By contrast, it represents about one-third of our revenues this quarter. Now, it's important to emphasize that the need to prevent and treat primary care diseases in the developed world is greater than ever, and the opportunities for Pfizer to create shareholder value in addressing those needs are still enormous. In fact, our confidence in Pfizer's ability to meet those needs is strengthened by the performance of the Primary Care business unit both this quarter and year-to-date.

In a very difficult operating environment, the legacy Pfizer Primary Care business increased operationally 5% this quarter compared to last year -- 4% in the United States; 2% in Western Europe; and 11% in the other developed countries, including Japan, Australia, and Canada. And nearly all of our key Primary Care products did well across the developed world.

You may recall that last quarter, I spoke about how we target support of our end line products in particular markets based on rigorous and proven ROI methodologies. This quarter, you can see some of the results of that in the performance of products like Lyrica, Celebrex, and Viagra.

Now all of that said, we all know that Primary Care in the developed markets faces particularly tough challenges in meeting the expectations of patients, payors and regulators, and facing competition from generics, and most importantly, in discovering and developing treatments for devastating diseases like diabetes and Alzheimer's. So our overall ability to deliver strong and consistent results to our shareholders over time is substantially enhanced by balancing the opportunities and the risks offered by the Primary Care business, with increasingly substantial contributions from a wide range of products and markets that offer entirely different risk and return profiles.

One example is our Specialty Care business in the developed world, the green slice on the pie chart. This business includes products whose technology, lifecycles, pricing structures and other characteristics, are quite different than those of Primary Care -- products like the world's leading vaccine Prevnar and its leading biologic Enbrel. As you can see from the chart, our Specialty Care business produced 13% of our revenues in the second quarter of last year. By comparison this quarter, Specialty generated 22% of our sales, and 5% of those sales came from vaccines.

Another set of businesses offering a different balance of opportunities and risks are those within our Diversified business units -- the orange slice. As you know, the Wyeth acquisition added the Consumer Nutrition businesses to our portfolio and substantially enhanced our Animal Health business. As a group, our Diversified businesses represented 8% of our revenues at this time last year but they produced 13% of our sales this quarter. And as you can see from the chart, 5% of those Diversified business revenues are coming from the Emerging Markets.

And, of course, the Emerging Markets unit itself, the red slice, which represents our Biopharmaceutical businesses in those geographies, as well as the Established Products unit, the off-patent products in the developed world -- the yellow slice -- also provide opportunities and risks quite different from the Primary Care business. The Established Products business remains on track to become a long-term source of growth; and, in this quarter, Emerging Markets delivered a strong performance, growing 11% on a legacy Pfizer operational basis.

Our experience with Prevnar in China is a good example of what's driving growth in the Emerging Markets and how the combination with Wyeth is producing shareholder value. In just the first six months of this year alone, sales of Prevnar in China have already surpassed the vaccine sales in China for all of last year. In fact, China powerfully illustrates, in an important growth market, the benefits of the Wyeth acquisition and our broad portfolio; our business unit structure and its focus on execution; and our disciplined approach to capital investment and productivity.

In China, our legacy Pfizer business produced operational growth of about 30%. Together with the addition of the Wyeth products, we now have a business in China that is twice as large as it was a year ago, a business that generated nearly $0.5 billion in this quarter.

We'll continue to review the balance of risks and opportunities in our business so that we can deliver strong, consistent results for our shareholders over time. This balance is especially valuable in generating steady results, because our core mission of bringing forward innovative new medical treatments in ways that generate good returns for shareholders is a risky enterprise and it always will be.

Now on that point, I want to be very clear. I fully understand the significance to Pfizer's current valuation of our track record in R&D and of the historical return on capital invested in research. And one of my highest personal priorities is addressing R&D productivity and how to generate the best return from R&D for investors. That is also true for Ian, for Frank, and for Mikael Dolsten, who, as you know, was appointed head of Worldwide R&D during the quarter.

Meanwhile, we continue to see data emerge from our late-stage pipeline. And in that regard, we had both good news and bad news in the quarter. Certainly, the FDA's decisions regarding Tanezumab were both surprising and disappointing. By contrast, crizotinib has generated impressive and important clinical results for people suffering from lung cancer despite having smoked very little or not at all. In fact, the crizotinib results are so strong that we are planning to file for approval during the first half of next year, much sooner than originally expected.

In addition, in June, along with Bristol-Meyers, we announced the early termination of a Phase 3 trial for apixaban because it showed clear evidence of a reduction in stroke and embolism when compared to aspirin. We expect the initial scientific presentation of these results to occur at the European Society of Cardiology meeting at the end of the month.

We're working to publish the data and are assessing our regulatory options based on these positive developments. And during the balance of the year, we expect to receive Phase 3 clinical results for a variety of compounds, including Prevnar 13 in adults, tasocitinib, bosutinib, axitinib, and Sutent for non-small cell lung cancer. We're looking forward to seeing these results and I know you are as well.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO, SVP AND CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Jeff. Good day, everyone. Before I begin, I want to punctuate Jeff's previous comments regarding Pfizer's dividend. First, we have continued confidence in the business, given the strong operational performance that we posted for the two full quarters that have included Wyeth operations. These results demonstrate the strength of our more balanced portfolio. In addition, we have continued confidence in the Wyeth integration and our initiatives remain on track.

Finally, we continue to expect to generate consistent results over the long-term, including cash flow, which we anticipate will benefit shareholders through appropriate levels of investment in the business and our pipeline to generate profitable revenue growth, as well as a direct return of cash to our shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases.

We understand the importance of our dividends as well as our payout ratio relative to that of our peers. As such, we are now targeting a dividend payout ratio comparable to the current industry average of approximately 40% in about three years. While the dividend level remains the decision of the Board and will continue to be evaluated in the context of future business performance, barring any unforeseen circumstances, we currently anticipate Board approval of a dividend increase in December.

Now let's move on to the second-quarter financial results. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.

The 58% year-over-year increase in second-quarter 2010 revenues was primarily attributable to the addition of Wyeth products, which favorably impacted revenues by 50%, as well as legacy Pfizer products, which increased revenues by 3%. Second-quarter revenues also included the positive effect of foreign exchange of $584 million, or 5%.

The increases in adjusted income and adjusted diluted EPS were primarily due to revenues from legacy Wyeth products and foreign exchange, which were partially offset by expenses associated with the addition of Wyeth operations, a higher net interest expense, and an increase in the effective tax rate. Also, it's important to remember that both reported and adjusted diluted EPS were affected by the increased number of shares outstanding compared with the year-ago quarter, because of shares issued to partially fund the Wyeth acquisition.

Second-quarter adjusted total costs were negatively impacted primarily by the addition of Wyeth operations, and to a much lesser extent, by foreign exchange, which increased the adjusted total cost by $48 million, or 1%. The increase in adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to the change in mix of products and businesses resulting from the addition of Wyeth operations, which was partially offset by the positive impact of foreign exchange.

The increases in adjusted SI&A and R&D were also driven by the addition of Wyeth operations as well as the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. In addition, our continued investment in our late-stage development portfolio contributed to the increase in R&D expenses.

Foreign exchange continued to have a positive impact on revenues and a negative impact on adjusted total cost this quarter. While foreign exchange had a negative impact on adjusted SI&A and R&D expenses, it had a positive effect of $99 million, or 6%, on adjusted cost of sales.

The net effect of foreign exchange favorably impacted adjusted diluted EPS by $0.04 in the second quarter. Beginning this quarter, we've included additional schedules to our financial tables, which break out the revenues for our top Biopharmaceutical products and our total Diversified business by geographic market, including the following international markets -- developed Europe, developed rest-of-world, and Emerging Markets. As we have previously stated, given the volatility of Emerging Markets, we do expect performance to fluctuate from quarter to quarter.

Revenues from our Biopharmaceutical business increased 49% in the second quarter, with operational growth of 44%, of which $4.2 billion or 41% was attributable to legacy Wyeth products and $313 million or 3% was attributable to legacy Pfizer products.

I want to point out that within the Biopharmaceutical units, legacy Pfizer's year-over-year operational performance continues to be impacted by the loss of exclusivity for certain products. Also, the switch to our fee-for-service distribution model had a favorable impact of $308 million on legacy Pfizer's second quarter US biopharmaceutical sales, which, as expected, essentially offset the unfavorable impact from this switch in the first quarter.

Also, foreign exchange had a positive impact of $485 million or 5% on biopharmaceutical revenues. It's important to remember that Pfizer's international calendar ends on November the 30th, and as a result, the second quarter of the year includes international results for March, April, and May. June was an unfavorable quarter for the euro and this will be incorporated into our third-quarter results.

Second-quarter Diversified revenues increased 169% year-over-year, mainly due to the addition of Wyeth products, and to a lesser extent, foreign exchange, which had a 12% positive impact on Diversified revenues. Operationally, Diversified revenues increased 157%.

Second-quarter revenues generated in Emerging Markets, which include both legacy Pfizer, and legacy Wyeth Biopharmaceutical, and Diversified operations, increased 90% year-over-year, driven by a significant contribution of legacy Wyeth products and legacy Pfizer revenues in Emerging Markets, which increased 11% year-over-year.

It's important to note that Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico, and Turkey contributed a combined 46% to the overall growth in emerging markets. And legacy Pfizer Biopharmaceutical revenues in these countries grew 19% operationally in the quarter.

We are reaffirming all elements of our 2010 full-year guidance and expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the upper end of our guidance range with expenses in the lower end of our ranges.

I'd like to point out that there are several factors that will unfavorably impact our revenues in the second half of the year, including Lipitor's loss of exclusivity in Canada in May of 2010; Effexor's global loss of exclusivity in July of 2010; two additional selling days in the US during the first half of the year versus the second half; and continued pricing pressure in Europe.

All other things being equal, the combined effect of these factors is expected to decrease second half 2010 revenues by approximately $2 billion. It's also important to remember that the level of our expenses varies from quarter to quarter.

All of these factors have been considered in our 2010 guidance; therefore, we believe it's most prudent to maintain our current full-year 2010 guidance ranges. Based on our confidence in our future business performance, we are reaffirming all elements of our 2012 financial targets. These targets incorporate the anticipated impact of US healthcare legislation, as does our 2010 guidance. Our 2012 targets continue to assume a modest level of business development activities, up to 5% of our revenue target.

Moving on to key takeaways, despite the challenging economic environment, we achieved strong operational performance, while at the same time advancing the integration of Wyeth with minimal business disruption. We are reaffirming all elements of our 2010 guidance, and at this point, expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the upper end of our guidance range with expenses in the lower end of our ranges. And we have reaffirmed our 2012 financial targets.

We remain on target to deliver our anticipated cost reductions, including achieving 50% in 2010. During the second quarter, we repurchased $500 million worth of Pfizer shares, as we believe that, given the prevailing market conditions, share repurchases are an attractive investment opportunity and a prudent use of our capital.

Again, while the dividend level remains a decision of the Board and will continue to be evaluated in the context of future business performance, barring unforeseen events, we currently anticipate Board approval of a dividend increase in December, and we are now targeting a dividend payout ratio comparable to that of the current industry average of approximately [40%] in about three years.

Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. And at this time, Operator, if we can please pull for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). David Risinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have a couple questions. First of all, with respect to the wholesaler buying in the quarter, could you just go through that in a little bit more detail? And then if you could explain who you have inventory management agreements with and who you do not? For example, I would guess that maybe some chains that you don't have wholesaler buying or inventory managing agreements with might purchase ahead of price increases, but I'm not sure how to think through that.

And then second, if you could provide some more color on the run rate in the second half and how you plan to raise that up, that level of earnings per share upward, to raise the base of earnings dramatically ahead of the major patent expirations going into 2012. Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Okay, thank you, David. Thanks, David. Good morning. I'm going to ask Frank to take both questions.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Alright, so, David, in terms of the wholesalers, I think the way I'll answer this question is, we announced on our last call that we were moving from a TIPS environment to a fee-for-service model in our US distributors. And what happened is, last quarter, that detrimentally impacted revenues; this quarter, it positively impacted revenues.

The positive impact this quarter was about $308 million -- exactly $308 million. Last quarter, it was approximately the same. So, on a year-to-date basis, we are pretty much net zero now, relative to the change in our US distributor model. So that's how I'd answer that.

In terms of the run rate question and what are we going to be doing to improve EPS, going forward, now, that's all the things from our perspective that we've been working on. So it's continuing on our cost reduction initiatives; it's continuing to drive continuous improvement in our focused areas, which include Emerging Markets, Established Products, our Invest to Win areas. It's those kinds of things along with executing and driving our business every day.

IAN READ, SVP AND GROUP PRESIDENT, PFIZER BIOPHARMACEUTICAL BUSINESSES, PFIZER INC.: Yes, we have the fee-for-service agreement with the three major distributors, at least the three major distributors in the US, which covers the majority of our sales into the US distribution channels.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First of all, I appreciate the color on the dividend targets over time and I had a couple questions on that. How should we think about the trajectory of those potential increases? Is that something that will be relatively consistent over the next three years? Or should we think about those potential increases as more backend-loaded as you get past the 2012 patent cycle?

Second question was with the capital structure currently. What type of constraints should we think about when considering your share rebuttal, your dividend, your business development ambitions? Basically, what type of debt levels and leverage are you now comfortable operating with, given the more Diversified business that you have?

And the final question was thinking about the longer-term model. You've moved your Primary Care business obviously down to 34% this quarter, given a number of major patent expirations and what appears to be some of your larger pipeline opportunities coming from non-Primary Care areas. Where should we think about PCP [going] as a percent of revenue over time? Could we see that number go below 25% when you consider your longer-term targets? Thanks.

CHUCK TRIANO: Go ahead, Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, let's see -- on each of these in terms of the dividend, I talked about we're targeting now a dividend payout ratio comparable to the current industry average of approximately 40%. Chris, we're currently at about 33%, right? Our dividend payout right now is $0.72. If you take whatever number from our guidance, you get about 33%. So clearly, this is a commitment to a great dividend in about three years.

In terms of how we get from here to there, that will take place on an annual basis. And we said we'd have -- we're expecting an increase pending Board approval this coming December. So, we gave you the beginning, where we are, where we plan to get to, and then, obviously, we'll tell you how we get there each December -- the way I'd answer that question.

In terms of capital constraints, from my perspective, with our current balance sheet, we continue to have financial flexibility. If you look this quarter and we made a commitment to increase our dividend payout, we bought back $500 million worth of our shares. We're able to fund the business operationally and do the things we need to do to invest for future profitable growth.

I think we're seeing some of that in our emerging markets, for example; we had a strong quarter in China. We've been deploying capital in China and we're getting a nice return on that capital. So, from my perspective, I think we have lots of flexibility to do the things that we need to do to invest in the business, to return capital to our shareholders. I don't view it as an or; I view it more as an and.

JEFF KINDLER: Yes, and I'll just -- maybe I'll just comment on the last part of your question, Chris. The objective is to have a balanced portfolio of risk and opportunities. And as I've said before, we'll continue to review the right balance over time and not based on some predetermined objective of percentages over some long-term forecasts.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, I had two questions. First, can you talk about the push/pulls on the gross margin and your expectations of how this plays out the rest of the year and into next year?

And then, secondly, just specifically on Prevnar 13 and 7, can you give us a flavor for what is kind of a normal run rate revenues of those products, how you see that playing out? Were there any major tenders this quarter versus last quarter and your expectations for how that plays out the rest of the year? Thanks.

CHUCK TRIANO: Okay, start with Frank and then Ian.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. So on the gross margin, I'll answer this maybe through cost of sales. If you look at our cost of sales through the first -- for the quarter and for first half of the year, they're running at about 17% for the quarter; although if you take out foreign exchange, it's about 18.2%.

And then for the first half of the year, it was 17.3% if we remove foreign exchange to about 17.5%. And then we maintained our guidance, which is roughly 19% to 20%. So let me talk about what's happening there. And really, Mark, it's the items I talked about relative to revenue plus a few other things. So, clearly, product mix can change from quarter to quarter.

The second thing is, we do expect some continued volatility with foreign exchange and the impact that that could have, in particular, on cost of sales. And then some of the LOEs that I talked about with Lipitor and with Effexor will put some pressure on (technical difficulty) as well in gross margins -- as will continued European pricing pressure. So we've factored all that into our guidance for the year, which is 19% to 20%, which [we maintain]. And we also factored that into our 2012 targets, [while] we kept our operating margins in the high [30's] to low [40's].

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Ian, about Prevnar?

IAN READ: I think the Prevnar quarter was -- I would classify it as a normal quarter, the usual fluctuations we're seeing -- good growth in the United States coming from the catch-up volume that we're operating against, against our price increases and a small impact of inventory build of about $34 million. So I would just classify it as a normal quarter and the expected rhythm of the business.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions. First question for Frank. Just -- you indicated certainly there were some European pricing pressures. Can you help us understand what the impact on pricing will be in the back half, but more importantly, on 2011, 2012 coming out of most notably, France, Germany, Spain, and how that carries through to '11/'12, and any implication that has on your guidance?

And then on US price increases, may not have been -- were there any in the quarter? But more importantly, were there any in the third quarter that could have led to some anticipatory buy-ins? Thanks.

CHUCK TRIANO: Okay, Frank, you want to start?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. So, on the European pricing pressure, I think the way I'll answer this, John, is, pricing pressure in Europe is not a new entry for the industry nor for the Company. And we're a global company with a global portfolio, and we run the business, therefore, on a global basis.

But that said, the way we think about Europe is, traditionally, pricing pressure on an annual basis has been in the low single digits. This year, we're projecting it to be in the mid-single digits. We factor that into our 2010 guidance. And we're assuming that mid-single-digit pressure going forward through our 2012 targets. So that's how I'd answer the question relative to what we see from an impact perspective, and then the relationship of that to our guidance in 2010 and our targets for 2012.

IAN READ: So, John, we'd moved to a fee-for-service basis, so we don't see any movements in inventories because of anticipatory buying because of price increases. So I don't think that's been an impact. And the inventory levels at the end of the second quarter were equal to or slightly down compared to the inventory levels of the previous 2009 second-quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, the inventory levels this quarter with the distributors was 2.6 weeks on hand. The year-ago quarter, it was 2.8 weeks on hand -- just to punctuate Ian's point.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jami Ruben, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you for providing increased transparency on your sales in emerging markets. That's very helpful.

A question for you, Jeff and Frank. You purchased $500 million worth of stock during the quarter, which is obviously a great start, something that we've been wanting to see; but frankly, a pittance relative to what your real buying capacity is and given that you're going to generate $20 billion -- close to $20 billion in operating cash flow. So can you update us on your thoughts on this? And how more aggressive you are likely to get with share repurchases?

My second question relates to business development activities. There hasn't been much this year despite, I think, your guidance, Frank, of 5% of the revenue target in 2012 coming from M&A. Can you remind us again your priorities? Obviously, there is large-scale biotech M&A activity heating up. And could you also just tell us or characterize your interest in acquiring a large-scale, say, $18 billion to $20 billion biotech asset? Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So on the share repurchases, if you recall, last quarter, we said that given prevailing market conditions, we now viewed share buybacks as an attractive investment opportunity, and that we would be opportunistic in terms of going into the market and purchasing shares as market conditions warranted. And that's exactly what we did this quarter. We did the $500 million worth of share buybacks, almost 31 million shares. And on a going forward basis, we will continue to be opportunistic in terms of what we do or don't do in the market as market conditions warrant.

So I'd say that's clearly one possible use of our capital. As I mentioned, we did use some capital this past quarter to purchase $0.5 billion worth of our shares.

In terms of business development, we continue to view bolt-on transactions as prudent from a business development perspective and the focused areas have not changed. They continue to be Emerging Markets, Established Products, and our Invest to Win areas -- pain, inflammation, oncology, Alzheimer's disease, neuroscience -- those are the areas that we said before, those are the areas that we continue to focus on.

No change there, but we view Biz Dev as an enabler of our strategies, not as a strategy in and of itself. And we are -- continue to look at potential bolt-on transactions.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: On foreign exchange, you reported a benefit of 5% to revenues. When I look at what other big US drug companies reported in the quarter, very consistently, it was maybe 1% or 2%. And I know that every company has a different revenue mix, but I'm wondering, are there some reasons that can explain why Pfizer had such a unique big benefit in the quarter? Also, can you comment on what FX impact on full-year revenues would be if you kept rates current?

And then second question is on your legacy Pfizer Emerging Markets growth rate. You report that as 11%. I'm assuming that includes FX. What would have been the growth in that division on a legacy basis, excluding FX?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. So, on foreign exchange, the reason that we've been different than our competitors is really based on our fiscal calendar for international. So remember, our fiscal year ends in November for international business. So for the second quarter, it includes the months of March, April, and May; where, for the rest of the industry on the whole, it's April, May, and June.

And so in the quarter, we had March and not June. And what happens, Tim, is if you look at the euro to the dollar, for example, in March, it was 1.36, on average. If you look at the euro to the dollar on average for June, it was 1.23. So if we had June in the results, our 0.04 benefit would have been more like 0.02 on an EPS basis. The 5% in revenue would have been more like -- call it 2%. So it's really the calendar, the months that are included in the calendar that caused the difference.

On foreign exchange impact for the year, I think what I would say is, this quarter, it was $584 million on revenue. On a year-to-date basis, it's $1.316 billion. I'm trying to project that on a going-forward basis, just with all the moving parts; and with the different currencies and the basket of currencies that we have, is extremely difficult.

And the third question -- on Emerging Markets, that 11% was operational. It excluded foreign exchange. So think about that 11% as it's our legacy Pfizer Biopharmaceutical business unit of Emerging Markets that, all in, grew 11% operationally, which excluded the impact of foreign exchange.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Eric Lo, BoA Merrill Lynch.

ERIC LO, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for sharing the products sales details for the emerging markets. I was wondering if you could comment on what the profitability of those sales are in this region?

And second question, I wanted to maybe follow-up a little bit in terms of the switch for -- switch to fee-for-service distribution model. Are you foreseeing any impact to your sales in the second half coming from that?

CHUCK TRIANO: Go ahead, Eric.

FRANK D'AMELIO: What was your third part?

ERIC LO: Oh, that was it, I'm sorry.

CHUCK TRIANO: Okay. Alright, Frank for the first question, Ian for the second.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on the profitability of Emerging Markets, there's no doubt that gross margins in Emerging Markets are lower than the gross margins in our traditional Biopharmaceutical business; but it also -- but the Emerging Market business also has lower expenses.

So when we look at the operating margins that we'll generate from the Emerging Markets and factor that all into the combined Company, that's what allows us to reaffirm our 2012 targets for operating margins, which are in the high [30's], [a low] 40%, which by the way, is where we are now. Just look at our results this quarter.

Operating margin for the quarter is about 42%. If we remove foreign exchange, it's about 40.5%, consistent with our target for 2012, which clearly assumes growth in the Emerging Markets and factors in those income statement dynamics that I just alluded to.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you. Ian, on fee-for-service?

IAN READ: Because we went to a fee-for-service as of the beginning of this year, the underlying sales and demand are not influenced by buying patterns there because there's a fee-for-service. So I don't expect to see any impact in the second half of the year from fee-for-service. And the fluctuations that Frank is talking about are fluctuations that occurred in our '09 results between the first and second quarter, which then, on a growth basis, creates a comparison into this year.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Ian.

OPERATOR: David Maris, CLSA.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, CLSA ASIA PACIFIC MARKETS: Just wanted to understand a little bit better on the sales force headcount globally, how that developed during the quarter and maybe during the first half of the year. What is in China and the Emerging Markets, and how has that changed?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, why don't I run the total headcount numbers and then, Ian, you can comment on the sales force.

So, if you look, when we closed Wyeth, our headcount was 120,700. That was the middle of October. Please remember when we announced Wyeth in January, our headcount was about 130,000. So the headcount had reduced from announcement to close by 9,300 people.

Since we closed, the headcount numbers now by quarter have been from [120,700] to [116,500] to [113,800] to [112,100] people. So since we closed on the deal, we reduced our total workforce by 8,600 people. That's in addition to the workforce reductions from when we announced the deal to when we closed the deal, which [were another] 9,300 or so. So, a big number.

I also want to mention that despite that, we're actually growing headcount in certain parts of portfolio, for example, in Emerging Markets. So that's a net number that I just quoted. Ian?

IAN READ: So, in the US, most of the field force changes were made very quickly after the Wyeth acquisition. So they are reasonably stable; some minor technical changes. In Emerging Markets, we continue where appropriate to add field force. So if you look at China, we've expanded from 2,600 reps to 3,000 between the first and the second quarter. And that is the major country where we're adding field force.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: So, just two questions. Maybe Frank, can you characterize for us the relative size of a bolt-on acquisition for Pfizer at this point, how we should think about it? And how disruptive something like that might be viewed, given where you are in terms of the innings on the different -- or how you're thinking about disruption in terms of the inning where you are on breaking out the different business units, and separating out and having the different business units operate?

And then the second question was, I think, fairly simple -- how much did that two days of incremental Pfizer sales contribute in the first half of the year? Just wanted to know that number, quickly. Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, Seamus, on the days question, it's -- it was two additional selling days in the first half in the US. And assume it's about $100 million a day. [Someone cancelled], a touch higher than that, but $100 million a day. So [giving us] $200 million on the impact of the day's first half of the year versus second half of the year.

In terms of business development in this size, I used the term before, bolt-on transactions. I think of bolt-on transactions as a few billion up to maybe several billion, but it's in that kind of a range relative to a bolt-on transaction.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for taking the question. Jeff, you've made some commentary around balancing risk and reward. You've also talked about productivity in R&D and ROI. And there's also been guidance given about lowering R&D costs by roughly $1 billion by 2012. But I'm curious, given the fact it seems that the landscape has changed in R&D risk, it's gone up tremendously, would it not be more prudent to consider even lowering that number $8 billion to $8.5 billion by '12 even further, maybe another 10%, maybe 20%? Is that some thought around discussion internally? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Tony, thanks for the question. I said earlier, I recognize that the return on investment R&D spend is an important thing to focus on. And we are looking at that in general. And the way we've been focused on this, as you know, is to, first of all, think very hard about what disease areas we should be in. And in those different disease areas, there are differences in terms of the return; in terms of where we want to take risks. Some risks are higher than others.

And we have really improved, I think, the model in terms of moving Phase 3 decisions to places where the people making those decisions are accountable for the returns in a different way. And I think that we've made some important decisions in that regard and we'll continue to look at the overall spending, both in general and in how the spending that we have is determined, on both a product basis and across the portfolio. It's an important issue and we continue to review it.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And Tony, it's Frank. If I could just run the numbers quick. You mentioned the $1 billion. In 2008, the combined spend of Wyeth and Pfizer R&D was about $11 billion. Pfizer was about $7.5 billion; Wyeth was about $3.5 billion. And we said we're targeting $8 billion to $8.5 billion, which are the numbers you mentioned, by 2012. That's a $2.5 billion to $3 billion reduction off of the pro forma 2008 numbers.

OPERATOR: Bert Hazlett, BMO Capital Markets.

BERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I have two. First, is regarding the higher margin area of the Emerging or established markets, that of injectable products. How attractive is this area to you? And can you do licensing to play here or do you need to do acquisitions?

And then my second question is regarding crizotinib, the ALK inhibitor. In the genetic testing that's necessary for ALK elevation, how widely available is that currently? And do you have any plans to develop that test? And can you just discuss maybe other tumors that may express -- or over-express ALK that you might be considering with that drug? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Ian?

IAN READ: Sorry, your first question was? Injectables. Yes, injectables are an important part of our strategy. We're actually, as a first wave, we're working in the US injectables but certainly see it as important in Emerging Markets. We see that being done primarily through licensing at the moment as regard our strategy.

And on the second one, on the crizotinib, on the genetic testing, we're working with various suppliers, Abbott being one of them, to ensure that that test is widely available at launch. And we're also looking at the databases to see the expression of the [ALT] gene and other tumor types. We know it's present; there has been some studies talking about prevalence in various tumors. But right now, we're really focused on the opportunity in lung cancer and getting that product to market.

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Ian. We have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I have two questions. At this early juncture, what is your expectation for the launch of Lipitor generics in November of 2011 relative to timing? Do generics launch relative to number of competitors? Is it one or two or six? And supply -- can they supply 20% of the molecule or 100%?

And then secondly, what changes, if any, in R&D should we expect with Dr. Dolsten onboard? Thank you.

IAN READ: So, regard Lipitor, we expect the generic to launch in November and we expect them to have [fulsome] supply.

JEFF KINDLER: And, Steve, with regard to Dr. Dolsten, we're -- he's a fabulous, world-class scientist and physician who has really exciting ideas and opportunities. He's been responsible for our worldwide R&D organization for a couple of months, and has already brought onboard some world-class scientists and leading physicians. Watch this space -- there's some very exciting things to come. And I hope you'll have the opportunity to meet with him then.

And with that, I will thank all of you for joining us today. We appreciate your interest and time, and we hope you all have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
ibioph : Biopharmaceuticals | igeneri : Generic Drugs | i2569 : Biotechnology | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcancr : Cancer | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100817e6830013j
  


 HD
 Q4  2009  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,409 words
   PD
3 February 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President Investor Relations, you may begin your call.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP IR, PFIZER: Thank you, operator. And good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 performance, 2010 financial guidance and 2012 longer-range targets.

   TD
I am here with Jeff Kindler, Frank D'Amelio, Ian Read, Martin Mackay, Mikael Dolsten, Amy Schulman, among others. The financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at www.Pfizer.com in the Investor Presentations tab by clicking on the link, Quarterly Corporate Performance Fourth Quarter of 2009.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements, and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated February 3, 2010. These reports are also available at our website, Pfizer.com, in the Investors SEC Filing section.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Jeff Kindler.

JEFF KINDLER, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER: Thanks, Chuck, and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us. A bedrock principle of this team is that we meet our commitments to our stakeholders, starting with the owners of the Company. Since this management team has been fully in place we have met or exceeded every element of the adjusted financial guidance we have provided, despite an extremely dynamic operating and policy environment.

The 2009 results we report today continue our adherence that commitment. Our financial guidance for 2010 reflects our plan to continue to deliver results and meet our commitments. That guidance reflects a careful balance between two critical elements.

First, we continue to drive costs out of the business and improve our productivity in everything we do. We are also making our cost structure more flexible so that we can adjust our costs as needed.

Second, we are making focused, disciplined investments where we see the greatest opportunities for growth, whether in Emerging Markets, Established Products, in-line products, preparing the market for coming launches, or in the pipeline.

As a result, we see a portfolio with less risk, continued growth in adjusted earnings per share, and more consistent earnings growth over time. In that regard we are also providing today our targets for 2012, which given their long-term nature are necessarily subject to less certainty than our guidance for this year.

We have refined and revised the 2012 targets that we provided when we announced the Wyeth acquisition based on a thorough bottoms up review of all aspects of our business since we closed the transaction. In developing these targets we had the benefit of the deep and current understanding that our business leaders around the world have of their respective markets, customers and products. The leaders who will have accountability for the performance of their businesses.

Those targets show that Pfizer has come a long way in a short time. Only a couple of years ago we faced a significant clip in revenue and earnings in 2012 due to the coming loss of exclusivity for Lipitor. Today, thanks to the changes that we have made, the Wyeth acquisition and the hard work of thousands of people, our targets for 2012 project adjusted earnings per share that are higher than both our 2009 actual results and our 2010 guidance.

Now before Frank provides more detail let me offer some additional perspective. For the past three years we have been transforming the Company's strategy, leadership and culture.

First, strategy. We aim over time for modest topline growth, better bottom-line growth, and steady, consistent earnings growth. To achieve these goals we are diversifying our sources of revenue, as well as the risks of our investments. At the same time we continue to reduce our costs, continuously improve our productivity, and make our cost structure more flexible. Above all, we maintain a strong commitment to exercising discipline in how we spend our owner's capital.

In 2009 we significantly advanced these strategies in many ways, most significantly, of course, through the Wyeth acquisition. We also fully implemented our unique business model of customer-facing units with responsibility from proof of concept through the entire product lifecycle.

Our business leaders are empowered to seize new sources of value, guided by disciplined and appropriate capital allocation requirements. One example this quarter that wouldn't have happened here even a year or two ago, we quickly secured a deal for a promising compounds to treat Gaucher's disease.

Next, leadership. Over the past three years we have substantially enhanced our leadership at all levels through internal promotions and through external hires from inside and outside the industry. In the fourth quarter we added several outstanding Wyeth executive to our leadership ranks, including Cavan Redmond, who leads our Diversified businesses; Mikael Dolsten, who leads our BioTherapeutics research team, and Geno Germano, who leads our Specialty Care business.

Two of our world-class Chief Scientific Officers, Emilio Emini in vaccines, and Manny Pangalos in neuroscience, also joined us from Wyeth, along with [Lou Smuckler], our head of biomanufacturing, and many others.

During the quarter, in addition to many important internal promotions, we also brought in a number of other key leaders from outside the Company. For example, from GSK, [Dr. Gautier Dias Ramos] in BioTherapeutics research. From Sanofi, [Dr. Patria Kabasoni], heading worldwide safety strategy. From AstraZeneca, where she ran the cardiovascular business and launched major brands including Crestor, Adele Gulfo, our new head of US Primary Care. From PepsiCo, where he led the Gatorade brand, [Todd Magazine], our new President of North America for Consumer Healthcare. From J&J, Mark Gelbert, our head of R&D for Consumer Healthcare. From the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, Dr. Norm Greenberg, now our Director of Oncology.

Strategy, leadership, and finally culture. I call it the spirit of small and the power of scale. Across Pfizer our teams are now small enough to focus on meeting the unique needs of specific customers, patients, physicians and payers. They each have empowered leaders with the authority, the resources, the knowledge and expertise to make decisions, the entrepreneurial mindset and agility to implement those decisions quickly, and most importantly the accountability for the results of their decisions. All of this is backed by Pfizer's global scale and resources, a distinct competitive advantage.

This is allowing us to take actions to enhance shareholder value. Actions that are hard to imagine happening at Pfizer even a few years ago. For example, who would have thought that Pfizer would join forces with GSK to create Viiv Healthcare, a separate company that brings together the industry's best assets in combating HIV AIDS.

Today we are working hard to unleash creative thinking and fast disciplined execution throughout the Company. The watchwords of our culture are speed, focus, accountability, execution, results.

In the last quarter we saw proof of that in the integration, which continues to move quickly. On the day after closing we announced all country leaders and all headquarter sites. Within six days every member of the US field force knew their status. Within 30 days we announced an integrated plan for R&D site productions. Within 90 days we completed a scientifically complex prioritization across the two companies and announced Pfizer's new combined R&D pipeline.

This is all the result of the close working relationships forming across the organization. This is especially true in R&D, where collaboration is advancing important programs. A great example is work on our beta amyloid vaccine for Alzheimer's disease, which is currently in Phase 2 studies. This program represents a joint effort across legacy research units from the two companies and across modalities, by our vaccines team in BioTherapeutics, our neuroscience team in PharmaTherapeutics, and our partners at J&J's Janssen unit.

These changes in strategy, leadership and culture are for one purpose, to deliver value to our stakeholders. That in turn requires execution and a relentless focus on results. As you look at the operating performance of legacy Pfizer in today's release you can see these changes paying off. In Emerging Markets for the first time we saw double-digit revenue growth, led by China, India, Brazil and Russia. The Established Products business, consisting of products that historically simply decline, actually grew 1% on an operational basis for the first time.

Now while the results on this business will vary, our long-term strategy of stabilization and ultimately growth is on track. In the patent protected portfolio in-line products like Lipitor, Lyrica, Chantix, Geodon, Xalatan and Zyvox continued to perform well, both internationally and in the US.

Across all of these businesses we will continue to focus on reducing costs, making our cost structure more flexible and improving productivity. And we will also make focus, disciplined investments where there is opportunity for profitable growth. That is why our Emerging Markets business has increased the size of our field force in China. That is why Established Products has built a portfolio that now includes about 600 products. And that is why our Primary, Specialty and Oncology business units will continue to invest in the right products, in the right markets, consistent with their rigorous ROI models and their deep understandings of their customers and markets.

That is why we will make the right investments in market development at the right time to ensure that when we launch the exciting new products in our pipeline we will be successful.

All of this makes me very optimistic about our Company and our future. But, of course, what most excites all of us at Pfizer are all the scientific advances that give us so many opportunities to make a difference in the lives of millions of people. With the substantial assets and capabilities of the two legacy companies, and the extraordinary scientific talent that we have assembled from both inside and outside Pfizer, we can attack some of the most feared diseases of our time.

Our portfolio reflects our focus on those opportunities that we believe provide the greatest potential for investing our owner's capital, and that represent our commitment to therapeutic diversity and diversity of approaches.

We now have 133 compounds in development, including 27 biologics and 6 vaccines, bringing our ratio of small molecules to biologics from 3 to 1, to 1.3 to 1. We are especially enthusiastic about our late phase portfolio. We now have 34 compounds in Phase 3 development across various indications. Among the most noteworthy of these are Dimebon for Alzheimer's disease; [Tazositnim], our JAK inhibitor for Rheumatoid Arthritis; Apixaban for cardiovascular indications; Tanezumab for pain; Axitinib for renal cell carcinoma; additional indications for Sutent; and studies of the Prevnar 13 vaccine in adults.

We know, of course, that it is very unlikely that every single trial we conduct will produce exactly the results that we all hope; that is the nature of our business. But we are more enthusiastic about our late stage pipeline than we have been in years.

In sum, we are on the right course. We have the right strategy, the right leadership and the right culture to continue changing Pfizer in the right ways that will create value for our shareholders. With that, I will turn it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER: Thanks, Jeff. Good morning everyone. As always, the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast. Because the Wyeth acquisition was completed on October 15, 2009, we are incorporating Wyeth's results from that point forward, which includes approximately 2.5 months of Wyeth domestic results and 1.5 months of Wyeth international results, as Pfizer's international calendar ends on November 30.

Now let me get to our financials. Fourth-quarter 2009 reported revenues were $16.5 billion, a year-over-year increase of 34% or $4.2 billion due to $3.3 billion or 27% from the addition of legacy Wyeth products, $419 million or 3% operational growth from legacy Pfizer products, and $469 million or about 4% from foreign exchange.

Fourth-quarter 2009 reported net income increased 188% to $767 million, and reported diluted EPS increased 150% to $0.10 year-over-year, due to higher revenues, the non-recurrence of the pretax and after-tax charge of $2.3 billion in the prior-year quarter related to the resolution of certain investigations concerning Bextra and various other products, which were largely offset by higher acquisition-related costs, which include transaction and integration costs, and restructuring charges associated with the Wyeth acquisition, and significant purchase accounting adjustments.

Additionally, the fourth-quarter of 2009 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by tax benefits related to the sale of Vicuron, and the jurisdictional mix of certain expenses associated with the acquisition of Wyeth.

Fourth-quarter 2009 adjusted income of $3.8 billion and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.49 decreased year-over-year by 13% and 25%, respectively. These results were favorably affected by higher revenues, but negatively impacted by increases in the following areas. Expenses, primarily due to the addition of Wyeth operations and investments in high-growth and in-line product opportunities, net interest expense, and the effective tax rate on adjusted income.

Also, fourth-quarter and full-year '09 reported and adjusted diluted EPS were adversely affected by the increase in the number of shares outstanding versus 2008, primarily due to the issuance of shares to partially fund the Wyeth acquisition.

Fourth-quarter 2009 adjusted cost of sales was $2.9 billion or 17.5% as a percentage of revenues, versus 11.7% or $1.4 billion in the year-ago quarter. Driven by, first, the overall change in mix of products and businesses due to the Wyeth acquisition. Essentially, what you're seeing is a blended gross margin now of both Pfizer and Wyeth. And second, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. Excluding foreign exchange, adjusted fourth-quarter cost of sales was 14.4% of revenues.

It is important to note that fourth-quarter adjusted cost of sales included the full manufacturing network of both companies. That said, we see opportunities to lower the combined Company's adjusted cost of sales going forward.

Fourth-quarter 2009 adjusted SI&A expenses increased 52% to $5.3 billion year-over-year, resulting from the addition of legacy Wyeth operations, increased investment in high-growth and in-line product opportunities, and the negative impact of foreign exchange.

Fourth-quarter adjusted R&D expenses increased year-over-year to $2.8 billion or 27% due to the addition of legacy Wyeth operations, continued investment in the late stage development portfolio, costs associated with Established Products business development transactions, and the negative impact of foreign exchange.

The fourth quarter '09 effective tax rate on adjusted income increased to about 28% versus about 24% in the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the increased tax costs associated with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition.

Because the adjusted diluted EPS calculation includes the additional shares issued to partially fund the Wyeth acquisition, there is a variance in the year-over-year percentage changes in adjusted diluted EPS compared with adjusted income.

Last quarter we updated our full-year '09 guidance to reflect the inclusion of Wyeth from and after the closing date, and we achieved full year '09 revenue and adjusted (technical difficulty) EPS guidance. While our '09 guidance range reported diluted EPS excluded estimates for acquisition-related costs, our actual results included these (technical difficulty). Consequently, '09 reported diluted EPS of $1.23 was lower than our previous guidance range of $1.45 to $1.50.

On an adjusted results basis, FX increased fourth-quarter revenues by approximately $469 million or 4% year-over-year. On the other hand, foreign-exchange negatively impacted total adjusted cost in the fourth quarter by $720 million or 10%, which resulted in a $0.02 net decrease in adjusted diluted EPS. Most notably, foreign-exchange had a $568 million or 39% negative impact on cost of sales.

Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, adjusted total cost increased operationally by 44% due to the inclusion of legacy Wyeth operations, and the continued investment in high-growth areas. Now let's move to the results of our commercial organizations.

As you can see from the chart, Biopharmaceutical revenues increased year-over-year, which included a $419 million or 4% favorable impact from foreign exchange. Operationally Biopharmaceutical revenues increased $2.9 billion or 26% year-over-year due to $2.5 billion or 22% from the addition of Wyeth products, and about $400 million or 4% from legacy Pfizer products.

Primary Care revenues increased 10% year-over-year, including a 4% favorable impact of foreign exchange. Operational growth of 6% was due to the addition of Premarin, a legacy Wyeth product, and operational improvements in Lyrica and Alliance revenues.

Specialty Care revenues increased 84% year-over-year, including a 5% favorable impact of foreign exchange. Operational growth of 79% was due to the addition of Wyeth Specialty Care portfolio, particularly Enbrel and Prevnar, and operational growth of Xalatan and Zyvox, among others.

Established Products revenues increased by 57% year-over-year, which included a 6% favorable impact of foreign exchange. Operational growth of 51% was due to the addition of legacy Wyeth products, primarily driven by Effexor, the launch of six products in the US, bringing the number of solid oral dose licensed products launched in the US to 26, the launch of five end-licensed products in the newly created US Sterile Injectables unit, higher antibiotic sales, and the stabilization of the rate decline of some LOE products.

As you will recall, we created the Established Products unit to recapture value for products that have lost or will soon lose patent protection for marketing exclusivity. We are pleased that in fourth-quarter '09 legacy Pfizer contributed plus 1% of operational growth year-over-year to Established Products growth -- positive growth for the first time.

We do expect that the financial results for this unit will continue to vary quarterly, depending on products that have lost exclusivity, and where they have lost exclusivity, the existence of generic alternatives and other factors.

Emerging Markets revenues increased 25% year-over-year, including a 1% favorable impact of foreign exchange. Operational growth of 24% was due to the addition of Enbrel and Prevnar, legacy Wyeth products, and double-digit growth in priority markets such as Brazil, Russia, India and China.

In fourth-quarter '09 legacy Pfizer contributed 10% of operational growth to Emerging Markets results. This is the first quarter that legacy Pfizer has contributed double-digit operational growth to Emerging Markets results since the launch of this unit.

Oncology revenues increased 11% year-over-year, including a 5% favorable impact of foreign exchange. Operational growth of 6% was due to the addition of Wyeth's oncology portfolio, the continued solid performance of Sutent, despite increasing market challenges, which were partially offset by the continued negative impact of Camptosar's LOE in most European markets in July of 2009.

Fourth-quarter '09 Diversified revenues increased 83% year-over-year, which included a favorable impact of $45 million or 5% from foreign exchange. Operational growth of 78% was due to an 11% of operational increase in Animal Health revenues, due to the addition of Wyeth's Fort Dodge products, and an increase in legacy Pfizer's Animal Health revenues, and the addition of Wyeth Consumer Healthcare, which includes Centrum, Advil and Robitussin, among other products in Wyeth's Nutrition products. And an increase in Capsugel revenues due to strength in all regions and across all major product groups.

In January of '09 Pfizer implemented a new cost reduction program expected to achieve gross reductions of approximately $3 billion at '08 average exchange rates, compared with '08 adjusted total costs.

As we previously said, we anticipate a $2 billion net decrease in adjusted total cost, as we expect to reinvest about $1 billion of those reductions in the business. At the same time, we also said we expect to generate $4 billion in synergies from the Wyeth acquisition. We now anticipate generating net synergies of about $2 billion to $3 billion after reinvestment.

We are now combining the projected cost reductions from these two initiatives, and expect to generate in the aggregate gross cost reductions of about $7 billion and net cost reductions of about $4 billion to $5 billion by the end of 2012 at 2008 average exchange rates versus Pfizer's and Wyeth's combined '08 pro forma adjusted total cost.

We expect approximately $2 billion to $3 billion of these reductions to be reinvested in potential growth opportunities for 2012 and beyond, such as Emerging Markets, Established Products, in-line product support, and expected new product launches.

Our cost reduction initiatives continue to span essentially all divisions, functions, markets and sites across Pfizer. For example, broad categories of activity include manufacturing and research site exits, targeted workforce reductions and outsourcing.

We continue to expect about 50% of the projected reductions to come from SI&A and the remainder from R&D and manufacturing. In addition, we continue to expect the Wyeth acquisition to be slightly accretive to earnings in 2011.

Consistent with our statements during the last earnings call, during the fourth quarter we reinvested a portion of the year-to-date net cost reductions, about $750 million, in the following areas. Business development transactions in Established Products, resulting in license agreements this quarter with Protalix, Strides and Clarus. Incremental promotional efforts in the US, primarily around Primary Care products, including Lipitor, Lyrica and Chantix, whose fourth-quarter '09 growth rates improved sequentially. And promotional efforts in Emerging Markets, which contributed to the 10% overall legacy Pfizer Emerging Markets year-over-year growth, and strong double-digit growth in the fourth quarter in Brazil, Russia, India and China.

Net of these investments, we reduced Pfizer's standalone costs by $200 million on a constant currency basis for full-year '09 versus '08. We believe we can achieve our cost reduction targets as we begin to realize the benefits of some of the synergy decisions we have made, including determining headquarters locations, rationalizing our R&D portfolio, and reducing our R&D real estate footprint by about 35%.

In addition, we will continue making decisions quickly, including refining the combined Company's manufacturing network strategy within the next few months. We are confident in our ability to achieve the previously mentioned $4 billion to $5 billion projected cost reductions, while continuing to reinvest in the business.

Now we will move on to 2010 financial guidance, which is based on late January exchange rates, and does not assume the completion of any new business development transactions not completed as of December 31, of '09. The guidance also excludes the potential impact of healthcare reform in the US.

In 2010 we currently expect for the combined Company reported revenues in the range of $67 billion to $69 billion, cost of sales as a percentage of revenues of 19% to 20%, adjusted SI&A in the range of $19 billion to $20 billion, adjusted R&D expenses and the range of $9.1 billion to $9.6 billion, adjusted other deductions in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion, effective tax rate on adjusted income of about 30%, reported diluted EPS in the range of $0.95 to $1.10, and adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $2.10 to $2.20.

2010 revenue and EPS guidance was negatively impacted by the recent unfavorable changes in foreign exchange. For example, based on exchange rates in late January, the strengthening of the US dollar has decreased our adjusted diluted EPS guidance by about $0.06.

Finally, it is important to note that in 2010 Pfizer's US Biopharmaceutical organization is evolving its US distribution model to a fee-for-service approach in the US. Plans for this change were in place prior to the Wyeth acquisition, and Wyeth already has a fee-for-service arrangement in the US. This change should not have a significant impact on 2010 results. It should, however, have a slight one-time impact on seasonal sales patterns in the first and second quarter of 2010.

We expect first-quarter sales of legacy Pfizer products to moderately decrease year-over-year, which we then expect will be offset by a moderate year-over-year increase in second-quarter sales.

We are updating and expanding our 2012 financial targets. We have added targets for reported diluted EPS, adjusted R&D expenses, adjusted other deductions, and the effective tax rate on adjusted income. We now expect 2012 reported revenues to be in the range of $66 billion to $68.5 billion, which reflects the divestiture of Animal Health assets required by the regulatory authorities, a revenue shift to the newly formed HIV company, ViiV Healthcare, resulting from our joint venture with GSK, and Wyeth's return of its Relistor rights to the licensor. All combined, these items decreased the previous target by about $1.5 billion.

We also expect in 2012 adjusted R&D expenses to be in the range of $8 billion to $8.5 billion, adjusted other deductions to be in the range of $1 billion to $1.2 billion, adjusted operating margins to be in the previously expected range of high 30s to low 40s percent, the effective tax rate on adjusted income to be about 30%, reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.58 to $1.73, adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.35, which is based on approximately 8.1 billion shares currently outstanding. And then operating cash flow of $19 billion or more.

It is important to note that 2012 targets assume the current rate of inflation. Any meaningful change in this rate could cause these targets to change. Both our 2010 guidance and 2012 targets reflect our confidence in the business, and balance the achievement of our expected cost reductions with the anticipated increased investment to drive longer-term top and bottom-line performance.

In addition, in 2012 our targets assume a modest level of planned business development activities. I want to emphasize that these longer-term targets are subject to greater variability and uncertainty due to macroeconomic factors.

So to summarize the key takeaways, we achieved full-year '09 revenue and adjusted diluted EPS guidance. We realized $200 million in Pfizer's standalone net operational cost reductions, after significant investment in our growth opportunities. We provided 2010 financial guidance, which balances investments in high-growth opportunities with our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions. And we updated our 2012 financial targets, adding additional line item targets. And as demonstrated by our performance this quarter, we continue to deliver operationally while advancing the integration of Wyeth. Now I will turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. And at this time, operator, if you could please poll for questions. Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I wanted to ask you a couple of questions. First of all, on the 2010 guidance, we would obviously like to trust that the reinvestment that you are making in the products is prudent and beneficial in the long term strategic outlook for the Company. But I think we need a little bit more color so that we can have that confidence.

So if you could talk about why the SI&A expenses are presumably much higher than the Street expected. And obviously you are not inside of our models, but you have some priorities that perhaps you could elucidate for us.

Then if you could comment on the 2012 revenue difference and where that primarily came from. My last question is that with all the back-and-forth about the ratio of pharma acquisition, I wondered if you could remind us what you would see as the pros and cons of buying a generic business of that sort of (inaudible).

JEFF KINDLER: It is Jeff. Thank you for the questions. Let me make a general statement about your first question, which is investments in 2010. And then I'm going to ask Frank and Ian to elaborate.

We have had the benefit now since the closing of the Wyeth transaction to really dig deep into the opportunities that the two companies provide, and to really consider where there is opportunities to invest in growth. We have now with our business model a very, I think, very rigorous process. And as we've talked about in the past, we really apply very different hurdle rates to different businesses based on the various risks that they present, which vary. And it is a pretty disciplined process. We have looked at where there are opportunities in these different businesses based on their growth opportunities, based on what they see in their different markets.

We have also, as I mentioned in my comments, and Frank and Ian can elaborate on this, want to do that in a flexible way so that we can adjust our costs and investment as needed.

So what we are talking about for 2010 reflects a very thorough review of where those investments can be made in both the short and the long term to grow the business. So that is the approach we took. I will let Frank and Ian give you more specifics, but I just wanted to give you that overview of how we thought about it.

And I think, actually, that we are very excited about a lot of those opportunities. But I want to emphasize that it is a balance between continuing to reduce costs, both on an absolute basis, but also create a flexible cost structure so that we can flex it as needed and as business requirements demand. But also a real bottoms up business leader focused, market by market, customer set by customers set opportunities for growth that we approach in a pretty disciplined way. And that is how we come about these investment opportunities.

So let me ask Frank and Ian to take your questions, both about the 2010 issue and the 2012 revenues. And then I will ask Ian -- obviously we are not going to comment on any particular potential transactions, but Ian can elaborate generally about our thinking on established business opportunities. So, Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Let me he hit the 2012 revenue number first, then I will go to the 2010 reinvestment. On 2012 revenue let me bridge it this way. Back in January of last year we gave a target of approximately $70 billion, which was the sum of the two companies' revenue numbers in 2008, to add to standalone Pfizer and standalone Wyeth.

So a couple of things have happened. One, the first bridge is from $70 billion to $68.5 billion, which is the top end of our new target range. Three things. The planned Animal Health divestitures. The second item is the HIV joint venture, Viiv Healthcare. And then the third item is basically the return of Relistor rights to the licensor. Those three items were not in the approximately $70 billion target that we had issued. So that takes you from roughly $70 billion to $68.5 billion.

Then in terms of the new range, the $66 billion to $68.5 billion, we have had a year now since we issued that target back in January. We have had a year with the new business unit model in place and getting the benefits of that model. We have integrated Wyeth. We have had four months or so now post integration with Wyatt. And when we factor in all the data, all the bottoms up work that we've done, we are now updating to target the $66 billion to $68.5 billion. And we have confidence in our ability to achieve that number. So that is the 2012 revenue item.

On 2010 and on investments, I will touch on this. Ian, I will let you make some comments, and we may even want some product comment on this, not just limiting it to SI&A, although Catherine talked about SI&A.

At a high level, at a general ledger level, and I will let Ian get into some of the detail, it is the opportunity growth areas that we have been talking about where we continue to see opportunity. So it is Emerging Markets, where we continue to invest -- and I will call additional marketing investment -- make additional marketing investment in the focus countries. Adding field force, promotional tools, sales tools. We saw some of the benefits of that this past quarter with double-digit growth in legacy Pfizer Emerging Markets, and very strong double-digit growth in our priority countries -- in many of our priority countries.

Continuing to invest in Established Markets. Once again, sales feet on the street on SI&A. And also continuing to just work through other growth opportunity areas that we see. Ian?

IAN READ, GROUP PRESIDENT, PFIZER BIOPHARMACEUTICAL BUSINESSES, PFIZER: Thanks, Frank. The first thing I would like to make a point is that in the business structure we are structured for a post-2012 world. So a lot of our incremental investment will be in flexible spending and directed behind products.

So certainly in Emerging Markets we are adding field force as fast as we can with quality field force in China and Brazil and some of the other markets. In Established Products we are adding [dossias] and adding opportunities, and really focusing on market by market, which requires targeted promotional spend.

In the US Prevnar 13 adult, where we need to ramp up for that. It will probably require a Primary Care field force to really fully explore its opportunity. Similarly in Europe and Western Europe, the same nature of investments, a lot of premarketing investment to prepare the market.

Then inside the US we are putting variable spend behind some of the major products that we need to grow through this period, such as Lyrica, where we have seen in the fourth quarter, with that increased DTC spend, good improvements in marketshare for DPN, PHN and fibromyalgia.

Chantix, which I would like to point out in the three years that Chantix has been on the market, prior to third quarter it only has had 18 weeks of DTC in those three years. So we are putting substantial effort behind that, both in December and in 2010.

We can look at other areas of spend. Lipitor, we are continuing to defend Lipitor where it makes sense to maximize the revenues of Lipitor through its LOE. And even smaller products such as Toviaz, where we now have new data with head-to-head superiority against Detrol in two clinical trials. So we see a lot of opportunity in that segment and we intend to invest behind this new product. So that gives you scope.

If we take it to 2012, clearly we need to do a lot of market preparation and development for our Alzheimer's franchise, which Dimebon would be hopefully the first one into the marketplace. We have our JAK3 inhibitor. We have an oncology portfolio where we expect Axitinib to be entering, or the c-Met/ALK inhibitor. We have Apixaban, we have Tanezumab, we have Pristiq, both its depression indication and its vasomotor indication, and potentially [Aprela].

So we have a rich, powerful late stage portfolio, which we need to invest in to produce the growth from '12 and onwards. Actually, I would like to ask Martin and Mikael if they want to add some color to those really exciting products.

MARTIN MACKAY, PRESIDENT, PHARMATHERAPEUTICS RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: Thanks, Ian. And thanks for the question, Catherine. I will keep this very brief, because Ian has touched on many of the high points. You remember in March 5, 2008 we made some commitments about our late stage pipeline in terms of those entities entering Phase 3, and the numbers we would have in Phase 3 by the end of 2009, and we have met all of those commitments. The fourth commitment you will remember was the submissions that we would make over 2010 to 2012, and we are very much on target to do that.

Now to take you up to the close of the deal and add in the really wonderful products from Wyeth in that late stage, where we now have 34 entities. And Ian has mentioned the Tanezumab, Axitinib, Dimebon, not to talk of Prevnar and [Tanezumab]. So I couldn't be more excited about our pipeline. And of course it needs investment to bring it home. But Mikeal?

MIKAEL DOLSTEN, PRESIDENT, BIOTHERAPEUTICS RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: Yes, I am very pleased to hear the excitement from all of you about investment to really make these products reach all the patients that we want to, and be able to transform some of the diseases. For example, the Prevnar, both for infant and adult [form], I think is a vaccine that can really provide an expanded coverage. And in the adult area it will be the first powerful conjugate vaccine that could allow sustained protection from pneumococcal diseases.

Tanezumab I think offers the first new biological, and where we have pioneered the science, and to bring it into that pain setting on the Primary Care over time, as well as working with specialized pain physicians, I think can really advance pain relief in a new setting.

Of course, having spent a lot of effort in rheumatology with Enbrel, I am very excited to see a new [powerful] drug, that can also provide increased convenience.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thanks. Ian, just briefly on Catherine's last question, and we will move on.

IAN READ: I can't really comment on any particular company or possible acquisition, but clearly Established Products, as it becomes a major player in this field needs to expand its portfolio globally in reality to maximize the infrastructure we have created, both for targeted field force, commercial infrastructure (inaudible). So we will continue to look at business development opportunities to add to the strength of that portfolio.

OPERATOR: David Reisinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID REISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have a couple of questions. First of all, with respect to the longer-term other expense targets, specifically in 2012, they're only slightly different from 2010. So I am hoping that Frank can discuss your use of free cash flow and what your assumptions are. Because it seems like you are being particularly conservative, given the fact that the Company is going to be generating very high teens operating cash flow in coming years.

And then, second, with respect to the tax rate, could you just explain why in 2012 Pfizer is going to have a materially higher tax rate than all of its US-based peers? You are projecting 30%. Your US peers are in the low to mid 20s. It seems like that is too conservative.

Then my final question just relates to Prevnar. Prevnar was weaker than expected in the quarter. Was that due to a work down of Prevnar inventory in the channel ahead of the first quarter Prevnar 13 launch? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: I think Frank can hit all three of those.

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the other income, think about it this way, there is -- really when all is said and done there is three items that go through there for 2012, it is an adjusted -- it is really other deducts, because it is a charge, it is a debit. It is interest income, interest expense and royalty income.

So it goes down, give or take, by a couple of hundred million from 2010, so it is declining. We have some royalty income that declines over the period as well. And when you put all that together, you get the adjusted income number that -- the adjusted deduction number that we put out there for 2012.

Our priorities for capital and use of cash haven't changed. They are the priorities that we have talked about, that I've talked about before, whether it be the dividend, the amount of cash that we repatriate, debt repay downs, share buybacks, business development. Those haven't changed. They are all priorities. They continue to be priorities.

On the tax rate, our tax rate this year on an adjusted income basis was 29.5%. We had guided to approximately 30%. That is really being driven by the cash that we are repatriating from overseas as a result of the financing that we put in place for the Wyatt acquisition.

So I view that as very similar to what we have been doing. The industry average is lower. And we were lower than the industry. Last year we were 22%. And really it is what we are doing as a result of the Wyeth acquisition that has caused the rate to increase.

And on Prevnar, the short answer is, yes, to your question. It really was the result of, I will call it, lower Prevnar sales in anticipation of Prevnar 13 in the US.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just to follow-up on that question. If I take the high end of your 2012 guidance assumes $68.5 billion in revenues, and assume low 40% operating margin, etc., etc., I am getting more like 240 in earnings. And that still assumes no change to the share base. And I know you just said your priorities haven't changed, but just in terms of the guidance you're putting out there, am I wrong to assume that you're being quite conservative in terms of uses of cash? That is my first question.

Second question is, just if I can be more clear on the gross margin. I know there was an impact this quarter from FX. Can you again clarify the impact to COGS in 2010 from foreign exchange. My third question is where is Prevnar 13? What are the outstanding issues and what is a reasonable timeline for FDA approval? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Frank will obviously take the first two questions and Ian will take the third. Go ahead, Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on foreign exchange on COGS, obviously for 2010 we assumed current exchange rates, as we put in the release. The big impact on COGS was in 2009 in Q4, and I went through that in detail on the release.

It really has to do with where inventory is made, where it is held, where it is shipped, and the timeframe that takes place over, which for this quarter was very negative in 2009.

In terms of the EPS targets for 2012 of $2.25 to $2.35, what really drove the change in the targets, to your point, was the change in revenues, with a big piece of that being the change that was due to the three items I mentioned on my answer to Catherine's question.

In terms of characterizing them as conservative, to use your word, my answer is they are targets. They are three years out. Our job is to do what we say we are going to do, meet those targets. And to the extent that we can do better than that, we will. But our job now is to meet those targets.

In terms of Prevnar 13.

JEFF KINDLER: You want to let Ian handle this?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes.

IAN READ: With Prevnar 13 we are confident in our submission to the FDA and working with them towards approval.

OPERATOR: Eric Lo, Banc of America.

ERIC LO, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: I just want to push you guys a little bit in terms of your 2012 guidance. You guys are investing more in SG&A over the next few years. That should drive better growth relative to your previous guidance. So where have your expectations changed in terms of the different products or the different franchises in 2012?

Then in terms of a second question, what is your current view in terms of Emerging Markets opportunities? Do you believe you could continue to achieve sustainable double-digit operational growth in this area?

A third question is, do you consider the Nutritionals business to be a strategic asset for Pfizer? Is that a business you would consider growing through M&A, and what is the longer-term outlook for that business? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Let me give you a couple of comments on your questions, and I will ask Frank and Ian to elaborate. First of all, as we have said, the 2012 targets, first of all, they reflect some things that have actually changed since the last time we provided them because of Animal Health dispositions, the [VF] deal, and the return of the Relistor rights. So that is just factual.

But also, as I said, we have had now the opportunity, especially since the closing of the deal, to really review on a very bottoms up basis all the opportunities that we have to invest and to create real value in various markets. It is a really close review of all the opportunities we have. I will let Frank and Ian elaborate on that further.

Why don't I come back on the Nutritional point after you two elaborate on that question. And Ian, you can comment on the Emerging Market potential over time.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So in addition to what you said on the 2012 revenues, all I would say is compunctionally what you said, we went through a detailed process, bottoms up. We have the benefits of another year, the benefit of the BUs, the country managers, the Wyeth integration, and we refined the number. Basically there is no one big-ticket item. It is really just refining the number and providing an updated target, which is the $68.5 billion, which we have confidence in being able to achieve.

JEFF KINDLER: Ian, do you want to comment on --?

IAN READ: Yes, so on the Emerging Markets, I think you've got to look at it in the way we come to market. We come to market both in the Emerging Markets and through our Established Products business unit offerings. So we are going both at what we call the patented and branded products and also the other offerings through Established Products.

Emerging Markets is projected in '10 to represent 27% of the worldwide growth (inaudible) market and represent 11% of the volume. So these markets are hugely important to us in the future, as they create a middle class that can pay out of pocket for medicines. I do believe we can maintain substantially higher growth rates in Emerging Markets than in the developed markets.

JEFF KINDLER: So regarding Nutritionals, and this is true really of all of our businesses, what I have said before is that we now have nine businesses, and actually really it is much more than that, because within all these businesses are multiple businesses. Within each geography it is really a different business. The products are different businesses. So it is really multiple businesses.

But the point is we have now a variety of businesses that give us opportunities to create value in many, many different markets, with different risk profiles for investments, with different ways of serving patients and customers. We see the potential for opportunities across these businesses.

And let's take Nutrition as an example. In China, for instance, the combination of the expertise and experience that the legacy organizations have with respect to mothers and children, whether it be through vaccines with Prevnar for children, Nutritions, whether it be the vitamin experience of the Consumer business, whether it be the legacy Pfizer business, there is lots of potential opportunities there for those businesses to create value together.

Now I say potential, because it is early days, and the proof will be in our ability to do that. It is our obligation as a management team on behalf of our shareholders to determine whether, in fact, that value can be realized over time, and whether any of our businesses and assets create value for shareholders best together and inside Pfizer, or whether there are other ways of doing that.

And that, for example, was what led to the conclusion that in the case of, for example, the HIV/AIDS assets that the best way to create value in that case was in the GSK deal.

But as we sit here today, we are very excited about the businesses that we have, and the potential and opportunities that they create for the Company. And we are going to seize those opportunities and value. But it is incumbent upon all of us over time to continue to ensure that they do that. And portfolio management is one of our responsibilities as leaders of the organization, and we will always be looking at that. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I have questions on guidance. In the press release you talked about the gross cost savings from Wyeth being $4 billion, which has always been the number. But you're also talking about after reinvesting that translates into net savings of $2 billion to $3 billion. Maybe I have missed it in the past, but I don't recall hearing that gross versus net distinction. And I am wondering if in essence you are saying you're going to cut less cost out of Wyeth than what you originally said about a year ago?

Another question is on your revenue guidance for 2012 how are you accounting for pipeline products that could launch between now and then? So you've got certain products like Prevnar in adults, for example, and Dimebon, are those types of products in that revenue guidance?

Then the last piece is just on the R&D. So you put forth some pretty aggressive R&D cost cutting figures for 2010 and 2012. As I think kind of the core of the organization how are you confident that that isn't going to ultimately come around to bite you for potentially under investing in R&D?

JEFF KINDLER: Frank, why don't you address all three questions. I might make a comment on the last one.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So just quickly, on the less cost cutting, my answer is no. We are on a track to take out the $7 billion that we talked about. What we are doing though is we are choosing to reinvest some of that money in some of the opportunity areas that we have alluded to on the telephone and in some of our prepared remarks. So I don't view it at all as cutting less. We are going to get the $7 million (sic - see press release) that we talked about previously, but what we are choosing to do is to reinvest some of that money.

On the 2012 revenue targets and pipeline assumptions, I think the one large pipeline assumption would be pediatric Prevnar 13, and to a much smaller degree adult Prevnar.

In terms of the R&D programs, $9.1 billion to $9.6 billion in 2010, $8 billion to $8.5 billion in 2012 with the targets, those numbers have obviously been worked in detail with Martin, with Mikael. We have done bottoms up analytics on that. We announced our updated pipeline last week. It went from 600 programs to 500 programs. I believe we, the R&D team, the leadership team is very comfortable with the portfolio we have. We will be continuing to refine and optimize that going forward. And we think we are really focusing it on the invest to win areas, and we think we are maximizing the potential return on investment on that capital deployment.

JEFF KINDLER: I just wanted to just add one note on that comment. Because it is a really good and important question that you asked, but it is among the most important things that we as a Company, and we as an industry have to continue to focus on. We have to improve R&D productivity. We have to improve the return on our owner's capital investment in R&D. But at the same time, we can't do it in a way that doesn't feed the innovations that we need to do our core business.

We believe that we are striking the right balance there. We feel very good about the plans that we put in place. And we are making very good progress in that regard, and I think we are really on the right track. So I feel very confident with that. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Just a couple of questions for Ian. Can you give us a little bit more granularity on where the investment is being driven? I am a little perplexed by commentary on DTC with Chantix. So maybe you can just give us a little bit more clarity on are those investments really being driven to the Emerging Markets to potentially accelerate and sustain that double-digit growth, and it is being traded from some of the markets where we are seeing very disappointing, I think, across the industry, not necessarily Pfizer-related, but across the industry product launches in the US markets that we are tracking today?

Then secondly I just wanted to go back to Jami's question on Prevnar 13, and what is happening in the US, and then also what is happening internationally in terms of the timing of the national immunization programs getting up and running with new products. Can you give us a little bit of an update on that, and when we would see pricing and incorporation into that finalized?

Then again just Prevnar 13 in the US, what is happening? And do you expect at least have some response from the FDA prior to the AC IP meeting scheduled for February? Thanks.

IAN READ: So let's just -- on your first question, we have in the last two to three years been very deliberately shifting resources out of the United States and Western Europe and putting those resources into the Emerging Markets, mostly in the form of reducing our field forces. We changed our business model so we can still be effective with our customers in the United States and Europe, but moving those resources out of those markets that you commented on and moving towards the emerging markets.

The increase in investments through '10 and 12 I am talking about are principally in the Emerging Markets. The DTC is exclusively in the United States. And it is behind products that we believe there is an opportunity for growth, and we intend to invest behind them, such as I have said, Lyrica in its indications of fibromyalgia and TPN and PHN. We hope to expand those indications as we go through this period.

Chantix, where we believe we need to put sustained support behind it, both from a field force and from DTC, given we now have the label changes over. And targeted support behind Lipitor.

In regard to Prevnar 13, I really can't make any more comments on the FDA. As I said, we are very confident of our submission and we are working towards approval in the United States.

Abroad, we are beginning to launch. But in reality probably the only small countries have launched so far. We won the tender in the UK for their program. There is some important tenders still pending, like Turkey and other major markets. We have won some tenders in small countries like Gambia and Rwanda. And in general the product is evolving as we predicted in our forecasts.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Maybe first, when we think about $7 billion of gross expense reduction and the $4 billion to $5 billion of net reductions that you're planning by 2012, how much of that do you expect to be completed in 2010?

If I am hearing you right, are we anticipating -- are you anticipating in the near term maybe only modest net reductions to expenses, maybe what you saw '09, as your investment activities are nearly fully offsetting the gross expense reductions?

Then the second question is related to R&D, that $8 billion to $8.5 billion by 2012. Are you assuming incremental R&D spend associated with future business development activity in that number? I guess in other words, when we think about the targeted R&D spend for the pro forma company, would it be even below that $8 billion to $8.5 billion range?

And maybe just a final question. What should we think about in terms of updates to the 2012 guidance and long-term synergy targets? Is this something that we will hear about quarterly or is this going to be something that is going to be more part of an annual review process that will get updated? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Go ahead, Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So let me do the second question first, then I will do the third, and I will come back to the first. In terms of the $8 billion to the $8.5 billion that does not assume incremental business development. So just to the extent that we were to do some business development, and there was -- I will call it significant R&D involved, that would not be in the $8 billion to the $8.5 billion, point one.

In terms of the 2012 targets, we will update those as needed is the way I would describe it. Clearly we will do that for sure next January. But in terms of the quarters as we go through the year, we will make sure we update those numbers as needed relative to making sure we are providing information and disclosure that needs to be provided.

On the 2010 gross net question, clearly as we are investing, the investment is biased early earlier in the cycle. The reason it is biased earlier is so that we could see the returns as we work our way through 2011, 2012 and beyond. So I think directionally you're right, you will see more of the investments earlier over the three-year stage.

OPERATOR: Marc Goodman, UBS.

MARC GOODMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Two questions. First of all, in trying to understand how the legacy Pfizer sales are going to be impacted early this year, can you help us understand where are inventory levels, and where do you anticipate them going? Just maybe help quantify that a little bit for the impact for first and second quarter.

Then you talk about modest business development in the revenues for 2012. So should we assume that there is $2 billion, $3 billion, $4 billion in there or much smaller? Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So in terms of the inventory levels, the weeks on hand this quarter, which is what I am assuming you are asking me, with distributors was 2.8 weeks on hand. In the year ago quarter it was 2.5, 2.6. And in terms of dollar amounts a slight increase. So no material change. And on going forward basis, I'm not expecting any material change in the rhythm of the business. So that is how I would answer that.

In terms of business development and the impact on revenues, modest. You can take away what you think modest is. It is clearly not anything that would have a large material effect on the numbers that we provided for 2012 targets. So modest, think about as not a material number.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Frank, back to David Reisinger's question on tax rate, if I may. At what point in time is it most important to you to actually have a permanent tax reduction in the tax rate vis-a-vis not needing to pull money from abroad, and therefore perhaps having paid down the existing debt versus some alternative use of that cash?

Then secondly, Ian, with respect to investment this year in what inning are you with respect to the China infrastructure -- ninth-inning, eighth-inning? And can you make the same comment with India? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on the tax rate what I would say is this. I gave a target for 2012. We said approximately 30%. Please understand that with that 30% approximation as the target, I believe we still have financial flexibility to do the things we need to do to deploy capital in a way that maximizes total long-term shareholder return. So I don't view that tax rate as some big handcuff that doesn't allow us to have the financial flexibility that we need to have. So that is how I would answer the question.

IAN READ: So in India I would say we are really at the very beginning of our investments in India. And it is a market that is difficult to develop, but we are focused on it. Vis-a-vis China, regarding innings I would say we're in the middle of the innings. China is a huge opportunity. We've got a reasonably large field force. But we will continue to aggressively grow that field force to maximize opportunities and tailor it to the developments of the marketplace.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, I think we have time for one more.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: I have three questions. First, for Dr. Mackey, does Pfizer have the Dimebon Connection data now? Do you plan on filing the monotherapy data this year? And when will that data be presented? That is the first question.

Secondly, I would like to follow up on the 2012 revenue questions. In January 2009 when Pfizer gave the revenue guidance, it anticipated Animal Health divestitures to my recollection, is that not correct? And despite that anticipation, it was not in the guidance, is that how we should be viewing that situation?

Then thirdly, is the statement additionally our 2012 targets assume a modest level of planned business development activity -- is that the first time that language has been stated? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Let me answer the third and second question, and then Martin will answer the first. In terms of business development being assumed in the 2012 targets, is that a new entry, the answer to that is no. That is not a new entry. I have said that before. We have said that before.

In terms of the Animal Health divestitures being adjusted to the 2012 targets, the short answer is, we included -- let me say it differently -- we knew Animal Health was going to be digested, and we had made some assumptions for that. When we gave the $70 billion target that was based on, among other things, the combined revenue of both companies for 2008, which included all of the Animal Health revenues.

So the $70 billion, although we knew we were going to be making Animal Health divestitures, we did not -- we did not adjust the $70 billion for Animal Health divestitures. So the answer to that is, it is not a new -- it is a new entry relative to what was included and assumed in the $70 billion.

JEFF KINDLER: Martin?

MARTIN MACKAY: Just very quickly, we will -- the Connection results will be available in the first half of 2010, and we will publish in that timeframe.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, there is one more question in the queue, so we might as well allow that person who has been waiting patiently. Operator?

OPERATOR: David Maris, CLSA.

DAVID MARIS, ANALYST, CLSA: Thank you. Patience, I guess is a virtue. But I wanted to follow up on a couple of questions on the Emerging Markets side. If you could talk a little bit about what products are gaining the most traction.

And on the investment side, particularly in China, you had in this past quarter a deal announced on the R&D side, the establishment of a facility there. What is the longer-term goal on the R&D side? Is there a therapeutic goal? Is there some sort of technology that you're looking for? Thank you.

IAN READ: So let me answer the commercial part first, and then Martin can answer the R&D side. In China, it is a -- in large part it is an out-of-pocket market, so brand loyalty and quality is really important. So we compete with a portfolio that we have accumulated over many years, and products that are still growing, products like Norvasc and Lipitor and Zithromax. So frankly it is our total portfolio is growing, and it is not as impacted as the United States or Europe is by LOEs.

So this requires what I would call a traditional investment thesis, feet on the street, field force, relationships with physicians, maintain your quality, be visible, invest in the market, invest with key opinion leaders, and that is what we intend to do. I will hand over to Martin on research.

MARTIN MACKAY: Yes, just briefly, we established a R&D center in 2006. And initially it was to form collaborations with academics and some biotech companies. But more recently we have started our own portfolio, particularly in China, really dedicated to diseases that are prevalent in those areas. So you know yourself, from oncology to liver disease and the like. They have their own portfolio that they are progressing now. And I must say that the speed of progress is quite astounding in that timeframe.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thank you all very much. Thank you for joining us today. Have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ahp : Wyeth Ltd | pfiz : Pfizer Inc | usfda : U.S. Food and Drug Administration
   IN
i2572 : Vaccines | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | gvfda : Food and Drug Administration | gbal : Work-Life Balance | csched : Announcements of News Conferences/Calls | ntra : Transcript | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | gjob : Labor Issues | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvhhs : Health/Human Services Department | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100217e623001mu
  


 HD
 Q3  2009  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,245 words
   PD
20 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Pfizer's third-quarter earnings call. We will now turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano. Please begin the call.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP IR, PFIZER: Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's third-quarter 2009 performance. I am here with Jeff Kindler, Frank D'Amelio, Ian Read, Martin Mackay and Amy Schulman.

   TD
The financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage at www.Pfizer.com in the Investor Presentations tab, by clicking on the link, Quarterly Corporate Performance Third-Quarter 2009.

We will keep our opening remarks brief and leave about 30 minutes for the Q&A session. Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2008 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, October 20, 2009. These reports are available on our website, Pfizer.com, in the Investor's SEC Filing section.

I would also advise that Wyeth's third-quarter earnings release and conference call scheduled for October 22 will not occur.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Jeff Kindler, who will speak to the just completed Wyeth acquisition and then move to the third-quarter results.

JEFF KINDLER, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER: Thanks, Chuck, good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today. As you know, we completed the acquisition of Wyeth last Thursday. This transformational step was made possible by, and builds upon, the changes we have been making at Pfizer over the last three years. As one combined company we have with the people, the products, the capabilities and the organization to accelerate every single one of the strategies that Pfizer has been advancing since soon after this management team came into place.

Pfizer is now a significantly more diversified company, with an expanded in-line portfolio offering treatments and preventive medicines for every stage of life. The combined company also has a robust pipeline of biopharmaceutical projects, including significant late-stage opportunities in Alzheimer's disease, oncology, pain, inflammation, and other important therapeutic areas.

We have an enhanced ability to innovate with more top scientists to even greater scientific and manufacturing capabilities. And with a global network of clinical development centers that is second to none.

Our operations in animal health, consumer healthcare, nutrition and Capsugel served to diversify Pfizer like never before. Now we move forward with integrating these two companies, a process that began immediately on the day after we completed the legal closing last Thursday. We were able to get started so fast, of course, because we began intensive integration planning soon after announcing the deal earlier this year, starting with the formation of the new leadership team.

Back in April we announced the new company's executive leaders. Since then we have been combining our Pfizer and Wyeth teams, and we now have terrific leaders in place from both companies at all levels of the new organization.

We have added two new members to our executive leadership team from Wyeth. Three of our business unit leaders are from Wyeth. And so is their Chief Information Officer, our head of Regulatory Strategy, and several of our Chief Scientific Officers. In all, 112 Wyeth senior executives have accepted offers to join Pfizer so far. Of these, 14 are joining as country managers or country business unit leaders. And 12 have agreed to join our research and development organization, a number that we expect to increase.

It has been especially gratifying to watch the close working relationships develop among these Wyeth and Pfizer leaders over the last several months. Their work together has enabled our integration planning to move quickly, just as the implementation of those plans is now also moving very quickly. In fact, we completed the integration planning and closed the transaction eight months and 21 days after announcing it. This is remarkably fast, given the scale and complexity of two major science companies operating in diverse markets around the world.

And as I said, the speed is continuing. For example, we held our first global town hall meeting with employees on day one at 2 AM in New York on Friday morning, just 14 hours after announcing the legal closing. And we did it at that hour so that we could reach our colleagues in Asia during their work day. Our leadership teams below the executive level are now in place across most of the company. And every employee in the company knows their reporting relationships.

The day after we closed last week we announced the sites from which our major operating teams will be led. This week we are communicating the changes in our US field force that will result from the acquisition, changes that will be fully implemented by the end of this year.

I want to emphasize, of course, that this is only the first round of decisions about our sites and staffing. We are now finalizing plans for our other sites. We intend to announce decisions about R&D sites in the next 30 to 60 days, and about manufacturing sites three to six months from now.

All of our plans have been carefully crafted to preserve the company's productivity, and most importantly, our ability to meet our commitments to investors and other stakeholders. For R&D that means delivering the late-stage pipeline. For sales and marketing that means meeting the needs of patients and other customers. And for manufacturing that means assuring a reliable supply of of high quality medicines.

Of course, as we have said, our plans do include reductions in our staffing levels. In that regard we will move quickly, act fairly, communicate openly and retain critical experience and talent. We will provide you with more information regarding these decisions as appropriate, and as always, we will consult employee representatives as local laws and regulations require.

These are exciting times at Pfizer. We have a lot of work ahead, but we are also privileged to have an abundance of talent and assets, and we are only just getting started. Where we are today is a tribute to the hard work of many, many colleagues across Pfizer and Wyeth, who put in long hours throughout the 8.5 months to be to make this transaction succeed. And I would like to extend my personal thanks to every one of them for their hard work.

I believe this achievement and the continued solid performance of our business demonstrate that the changes we have put in place at Pfizer over the last three years are the right ones. In particular, our business units continue to show an increased focus on targeted strategies aimed at meeting the unique needs of specific customer groups around the world.

In each of those business units, and across all of Pfizer, there is today much greater accountability, which is driving faster decision-making, improved productivity, more efficient and effective use of our owners' capital, and better opportunities to create shareholder value.

In short, the changes we have been making are producing results. We saw that in our operating performance for the third quarter. This quarter our colleagues were continuing to build our foundation for the future. They were planning the Wyeth acquisition and integration. And they were facing a challenging, competitive economic and operating environment. And yet, in the face of all that they delivered a solid quarter.

On a constant currency basis each of our pharmaceutical units, as well as our Animal Health business, grew revenues this quarter compared to a year ago, except for Primary Care, which was flat, and Established Products, which was down in the face of LOEs as expected.

As we have said before, the strategy of our Established Products unit is to recapture value for LOE products, and ultimately to stabilize and then grow revenue for this business. Less than two years after its creation, this unit is meeting our expectations by reducing the erosion in the base business, and progressing a portfolio that is designed to provide the foundation for future growth.

Let me note a few other highlights from the quarter. Global revenues for two of our most important products grew operationally this quarter. Lyrica posted 35% operational growth outside the United States, while Sutent grew by 21% operationally outside the US. Overall, revenues outside the United States grew 5% operationally, while US declined 2% compared to a year ago. And revenue from our many alliances with other companies grew 21% worldwide.

On the expense front we continued to make good progress in managing our costs. We reduced our adjusted total cost by 5% compared to the year ago quarter. 3% of this was due to operational improvements. During the fourth quarter we expect investments in high-growth opportunities to offset a portion of the 2009 cost reductions. These include increased investments in Established Products, in Emerging Markets, particularly in China, and in our late-stage development and product portfolios. All told, this quarter's results show that Pfizer is on the right track.

So let me sum up. Over the past three years we have made the tough decisions necessary to effect the changes that were needed to position the company for the dynamic business environment of the present and of the future. And now we have completed the transformational acquisition of Wyeth, which significantly strengthens our people, our pipeline, our assets, and our capabilities, and as a result, our ability to seize the powerful opportunities ahead of us. I have never felt better about Pfizer's future.

With that, I will turn it over to Frank D'Amelio.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER: Thanks, Jeff. Good morning everyone. The charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast and will help facilitate the discussion of our third-quarter 2009 results. Now let me get to our financials. And it is important to note that actual results reflect Pfizer's stand-alone third-quarter and year-to-date financial results.

Reported revenues for the third quarter of 2009 were $11.6 billion, a decrease of 3% year-over-year. This was driven by foreign exchange, which had an unfavorable impact on reported revenues of approximately $610 million or 5%, which was partially offset by the non-recurrence of the $217 million charge, or 2%, resulting from a one-time adjustment in the year ago quarter for prior-year's year's liabilities and product returns.

Net of these items, reported revenues were essentially flat. Third-quarter 2009 reported net income of $2.9 billion and reported diluted EPS of $0.43 both increased 26% compared with the year ago quarter. These increases were driven by the favorable impact of the non-recurrence of the after-tax charge of $640 million recorded in the year-ago quarter, resulting from the agreements to resolve certain litigation involving our NSAID pain medicines, and lower costs associated with, and savings generated from, our cost reduction initiatives.

These factors were partially offset by lower revenues due to the negative impact of foreign exchange, the increase in the effective tax rate on reported results to approximately 28% from 17% in the year-ago quarter due to the increased tax costs associated with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition, and higher net interest expense due to the issuance of notes to partially finance the Wyeth acquisition.

Adjusted income of $3.5 billion and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.51 decreased year-over-year by 17% and 18%, respectively. These results reflect the unfavorable impact of lower revenues due to foreign exchange. The increase in the effective tax rate on adjusted income to 32% from 22% in the year ago quarter. Which partially offset by savings from cost reduction initiatives. Adjusted revenues of $11.6 billion which exclude minimal amount of transition services from sale of consumer healthcare business declined 5% year over year. Adjusted cost of sales as percentage of revenue was 15.4% versus 14.5% in a prior year quarter. Primarily driven by negative impact of foreign exchange, which is partially offset by savings from cost reduction initiatives. Excluding foreign exchange, adjusted cost of sales as percentage of revenues was 14.3% in the third quarter 2009. Adjusted SI&A expenses decreased 6% or $204 million Year over Year and Adjusted R&D expenses decreased 8% or $150 million Year over Year. These decreases reflect savings from ongoing cost reduction initiatives and favorable impact of foreign exchange, which decreased SI&A and R&D expenses Year over Year by approximately $126 million and $36 million respectively. On an adjusted results basis, foreign exchange decreased third quarter revenues by approximately $606 million or 5% Year over Year. In the year ago quarter, foreign exchange increased revenues by approximately $620 million or 5% versus third quarter of 2007. Cost reduction initiatives as well as foreign exchange continued to favorably impact our overall adjusted total cost this quarter. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, adjusted total cost decreased operationally by $209 million, or 3%, year-over-year. However, while foreign exchange continued to lower SI&A and R&D expenses, it decreased revenues this quarter by 5% and decreased adjusted diluted EPS by $0.05.

Now let's move to the results of our businesses. As you can see from the chart, our Pharmaceutical businesses and Animal Health continued to perform well, with Specialty Care, Oncology, Emerging Markets and Animal Health achieving operational revenue growth. In total business revenues increased 2%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange and the prior year's returns adjustment.

During the third quarter we continued to make progress on our ongoing cost reduction initiatives, achieving approximately $210 million in net cost reductions versus the year-ago quarter on a constant currency basis. For the nine months of 2009 we realized a decrease of about $950 million in adjusted total cost versus 2008 at constant currency.

During the first quarter we expect to make investments in business opportunities in Emerging Markets and Established Products and in support of our late-stage development in the product portfolios, among other things, which will offset a portion of these savings.

We remain on track to achieve our $2 billion net cost reduction target on a constant currency basis by 2011, which is in addition to approximately $4 billion in deal synergies related to the acquisition of Wyeth that we expect to realize by 2012.

These cost reduction initiatives continue to span essentially all divisions, functions, markets and sites across Pfizer. Broad categories of activity include manufacturing and research site exits, targeted workforce reductions and outsourcing.

We continue to have several opportunities for outsourcing, which include manufacturing, logistics, finance, facilities, legal and IT that are in various stages of implementation.

We are also continuing to size our workforce level with current market dynamics with the Pfizer standalone workforce level of 75,400 at quarter end. This represents a net decrease of about 6,500 compared with year-end 2008. Since the beginning of 2008 our total workforce decreased by approximately 11,200.

Now moving on to 2009 financial guidance. We have updated our '09 guidance to reflect the completion of the acquisition of Wyeth. We currently expect the '09 reported revenues for the combined company to be $49 billion to $50 billion. It is important to note that this guidance includes Wyeth's US revenues for the period of October 16 to December 31, 2009, and Wyeth's international revenues for the period of October 16 through November 30, 2009. And also takes into account the reduction of Animal Health revenues due to the divestitures to satisfy regulatory requirements, inventory, policy alignment and some other factors.

We also expect 2009 reported diluted EPS for the combined company of $1.45 to $1.50. Given the timing of the close, this guidance does not include an estimate for restructuring and integration charges. And we expect adjusted diluted EPS of $2 to $2.05. And adjusted diluted EPS guidance is based on estimated full-year weighted average shares outstanding of approximately 7 billion shares. We plan on providing full year 2010 guidance on our January earnings call.

So to summarize the key takeaways. We continue to deliver solid operational results, despite the challenging macroeconomic and operating environment. Revenues increased 2% year-over-year, excluding foreign exchange and the prior-year product returns adjustment. Reduced our costs by approximately $210 million this quarter and $950 million year-to-date on a constant currency basis due to operationally-related cost improvements. We expect to continue to invest in high-growth opportunities, which we expect to offset a portion of the 2009 cost reductions.

We have updated our '09 guidance to reflect the completion of the acquisition of Wyeth. And as Jeff previously mentioned, we are quickly implementing our Wyeth integration plans, which we have developed over the past several months.

Some of the integration progress we made to date includes determining our organizational structure and aligning our businesses and functions, announcing our commercial and R&D leadership teams, which included leaders from both Wyeth and Pfizer. This allowed us to quickly put in place the teams supporting our business units and corporate functions. And in addition we have quickly made and communicated decisions about the locations of the headquarters of our businesses. As a result, the combined company was operational on day one.

Going forward we expect to make decisions about our R&D network in the next 30 to 60 days and decisions about our manufacturing plant network strategy in the next threes to six months. With that, I will turn it over to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. And, operator, at this point if we could please poll for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). David Reisinger, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID REISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I guess I have two questions. The first is for Jeff and the second is for Frank, and both of these are kind of high level. Jeff, can you please frame your vision for what you think the investment community will come to better appreciate about Pfizer over the next year? And, Frank, can you discuss cash repatriation requirements in the near term? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: I think that the real power of the changes that we have made over the last two years that is already starting to reflect itself in our results and will continue to do so is the benefit of our business unit structure. And I would just highlight two particular aspects of that.

First of all, by having leaders of these business units that are really keenly focused on their particular marketplaces and their particular customer needs, we are ensuring that we are identifying the opportunities for both growth and the appropriate cost structure for those businesses. We are allocating capital to those businesses based on the risks and returns that are appropriate to them, which vary depending upon the businesses. And we are really encouraging them to see opportunities for growth, as well as structuring their costs accordingly. I think you're going to find, and we already are seeing, that is creating a lot of opportunities that would have gotten lost in the larger company under the earlier structure.

Secondly, by having those business unit leaders have developed responsibility for late-stage development in close collaboration with research, but nevertheless, they are the ones that ultimately make the decision whether to make those very expensive decisions in late-stage development, I think there will be a greater discipline and customer focus and commercial evaluation of those decisions that I think will improve our R&D productivity when it comes to the real intense investment decisions that are made.

So I think the visibility that we have given to these business units, now we are and nine of them, thanks to the diversification that Wyeth has presented, we are going to see, and I hope the investors will continue to see, the benefit of being in nine different businesses. They are in different cycles. They are in different markets, different opportunities. I think that really will be of tremendous benefit to the shareholders going forward. And I think we are already seeing the benefit of that and we will continue to see it over the next couple of years.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Then relative to the second question on cash repatriation, I think the best way to answer that is just in terms of the tax rate, and because we will continue to have repatriation needs. Earlier in the year we gave guidance for 2009 that said that the adjusted tax rate would be approximately 30%. It is still approximately 30%. I think going forward, at least for the near term, we should expect that rates to remain at approximately 30%. So that factors in and incorporates our repatriation needs.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: A couple of questions on Emerging Markets. First, can you just help us quantify a little bit what growth rates Pfizer is anticipating for its Emerging Market segment the next few years? I know you cited Emerging Markets as one of the core components where you kind of differ a little bit from where maybe Street consensus 2012 sales are. You talked about potential share gains in these markets. Is the growth you are expecting for Pfizer something meaningfully higher than the 9% organic growth we have seen these past two quarters?

And then second, margin contribution from these emerging market businesses, how should we think about that relative to Pfizer's overall operating margins?

And maybe just a very quick final question. Animal Health, can you just quantify the annual sales from the products that were divested from the last transaction?

JEFF KINDLER: Let's do this in three pieces. I am going to ask Ian to talk about Emerging Markets relative to the overall market growth. Then I will ask Frank to talk about margins for these business units in general and then on the Animal Health divestitures.

IAN READ, GROUP PRESIDENT, PFIZER BIOPHARMACEUTICAL BUSINESSES, PFIZER: We are growing in the Emerging Markets overall about 9% in the BRICK countries. Plus, I think Mexico and Korea or Turkey, we are growing at closer to 12%. The overall Emerging Market is growing at about 13%, and this is despite the economic turbulence we have had.

So overall I would expect Emerging Markets to at least continue to grow as a marketplace in their 13% to 15%. And our aim is to accelerate our growth, although to be truthful, 12% is pretty robust in those BRICK countries.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Then in terms of the second and third questions. On margins for Emerging Markets I think the way to think about that is clearly the gross margins there are somewhat lower than, I will call it, our traditional pharma business, whether it be Primary Care or the other places there.

But remember what we have said, it also has lower expenses, so that all-in our operating margins should still continue to be in the high 30s to low 40s, and that is no change from what we have said previously.

On Animal Health divestments, I had ballparked this earlier in the year, I will call it, at approximately 10% of what the overall sales of the combined business was. My guess is we will come in at or slightly higher than that, but in that rate. So not a whole lot of variability from that roughly 10%. My guess is it could be a little bit higher than that, but we will be in the zone.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: A couple of questions. The first about long-term R&D spending for the combined entity. One of your European competitors, Sanofi, has talked about reducing R&D spend by about 20% in 2011 compared to 2008. And they're able to do that in the absence of a merger. I am wondering if there is any reason why Pfizer, with a merger in hand, wouldn't be able to achieve R&D spending reductions that are at least as big as this.

Second question is what Pfizer's long-term goal is as it relates to the structure of the Company. Is the goal for Pfizer to get bigger over time, and as such, Pfizer will be an even bigger consolidator of companies over the years, or alternatively could Pfizer go in a very different direction and actually be split up into separate companies that are really distinct publicly traded entities? My understanding is that internally, at least, you have considered this latter option, and I'm just wondering if that is still something that is ever being looked at.

JEFF KINDLER: I will comment and then others can add anything. First of all, with regard to R&D we have said that the combined R&D spend of the two companies will be less than the 2008 spent by each company separately added together. Beyond that, we will provide further guidance on that subject in January.

As far as this notion of getting bigger, first of all, we just took on a fairly significant increase to our size, and what we're focused on right now is integrating that. But I have said from the beginning that our approach here is to combine the power of scale with the spirit of small. We are not interested in size just for the sake of size. In fact, a lot of what we are doing, both in the research organization and in the BUs, is actually creating smaller organizational unit where small is powerful.

There are benefits to scale. There are benefits to scale in late-stage clinical development, for example. There are benefits to scale in certain parts of the world where an important part of going to market is a large footprint. I think that is of benefit to us, for example, in Emerging Markets. But there are also parts of the business where scale is a major impediment to us. I think that is the case in research, and that is the case in some of these business units where we want to really instill an entrepreneurial agile spirit.

So we are trying to strike that balance between the two, and I think we are making tremendous progress. I think a lot of what some of these business units have done, and you should feel free to talk to the business unit leaders yourself when you have that opportunity, I think they will tell you that a lot of what they have achieved over the last year or two they have been able to achieve precisely because they are being given that autonomy to act in that way. So that is our objective.

Now in terms of the ultimate thinking about the portfolio, which I think is kind of -- lies behind your question, we like the portfolio of assets and companies that we have. We think each of them has the opportunity to contribute shareholder value. We think that each of them benefits from being part of Pfizer. And we see, in fact, the more we get into it, the more time we spend on it, we think they not only benefit from being part of Pfizer, they benefit from each other.

We have already had some preliminary conversations about where they can work together to create value. So we are on that course. But having said that we, as keepers of our owner's capital, always have the obligation to look at whether the mix of assets and portfolios that we have needs to be reviewed to determine whether certain assets should be reconsidered in terms of their place in our organization, what the best way of maximizing shareholder value is.

But we are going into this right now with a great deal of enthusiasm and excitement about the nine businesses that we have. So can we have the next question?

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: First of all, congratulations on the closure of your Wyeth transaction. I think it is fair to say that next year you will have more product news from your pipeline than you have had for quite some time. I wondered in that vein if you could just give us a little bit of insight on three projects. One, I wanted to know what the earliest might be that we will see the Prevnar 13 data in adults, because I think that the timing for the submission of that was early 2010?

Secondly, if you know any more on the IGF program, if you could give us an update there? And then when might we start seeing a Phase 3 program for Tanezumab report out next year?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. I'm going to ask Martin, if you could take those three questions. So Prevnar in adults, IGF and Phase III on Tanezumab.

MARTIN MACKAY, PRESIDENT OF PHARMATHERAPEUTICS R&D, PFIZER: Certainly, Catherine. Thanks for your question. We will be looking for Prevnar adult in the 2010 type of timeframe. In terms of Figitumumab, which is our IGF-1R antibody that you asked, as you know, we have as a result of a recommendation from an independent data safety monitoring committee, we have halted one of the studies -- suspended one of the studies. And we are really looking at those data now. Rather than speculate on how that goes, we will look at that over the next few days actually to see what transpires there.

And your third question was on Tanezumab. Again, we are looking -- we will see data towards the end of next year and looking for more in the 2011 timeframe.

Along with many of our products, as you rightly say now, the timeframe over the next one to three years is going to be incredibly exciting, with both the Pfizer current cadre in Phase 3 and the Wyeth compounds coming in. It is going to be a very active time for submissions for us.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: So just a couple of quick questions -- one is just housekeeping. Can you tell us whether or not we will see the Wyeth -- and when we would see the Wyeth numbers for the third quarter of this year? And is this in Pfizer's hands at this point to make that decision?

The second question is actually just on partnering and acquisition activity. You were somewhat restricted by the deal itself and the timing of the close to only $750 million. As we move forward should we expect the partnering and acquisition activity to pick up? And is that an area where Pfizer is particularly excited?

Then just the last question. In terms of the timing of some other partnered products, in particular, Dimebon in Alzheimer's disease, and also the Dupuytren's contracture drug from Auxilium, can you just update us on the timing of potential international filing for the Auxilium product and when you would expect to see the first Phase 3 data for Dimebon?

JEFF KINDLER: I will let Frank take the first two questions and Martin take the Dimebon Auxilium question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So let me answer your second question first on partnering and acquisition activity. I think first and foremost what is important is we just deployed $68 billion of capital on the Wyeth acquisition. The most important thing we can do is obviously get that integrated as quickly, as efficiently, as effectively as possible and start to generate returns on that capital. So I think first and foremost we want to get that done.

But then in addition -- and it is an and -- and in addition to that we clearly will have, and will continue to do, additional business development. We don't view business development as a strategy in and of itself. We view business development as an enabler of the strategies that we have talked about, and so we continue to see it that way. And where it makes sense we will continue to do business development.

If you look in 2009, since we announced Wyeth, we have done some business development. The joint venture, the HIV joint venture with GSK. We had the partnership with Bausch & Lomb. All licensing agreements with Aurobindo. So we have done some business development, and we will continue to do business development.

On Wyeth's Q3 results, we are not planning on issuing Q3 results for Wyeth. You know, the deal closed on October 15, so obviously we will begin reflecting Wyeth result in the new company's results beginning on October 16, and therefore that will be incorporated into our Q4 results for the new company.

JEFF KINDLER: Martin, on Dimebon and Auxilium?

MARTIN MACKAY: Just briefly in terms of Dimebon, we are looking to second quarter next year to see a readout of our Phase 3 data. And Xiaflex for Dupuytren's contracture also early next year for the international piece.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just a couple of questions. Jeff, if we can go back to the issue of scale. And if you can help us to understand the strategic importance of your non-pharma assets, I appreciate you get this question every time, but when you look at the combined company the new Pfizer's non-pharma assets represent about 15% of sales. That doesn't include vaccines and biologics, but consumer, nutritional and Animal Health. If you compare that to J&J, Abbott or Novartis, those companies which have obviously successfully diversified, have non-pharma assets that are well north of 40% to 50%. Maybe not Novartis yet, but on its way.

So my question is, is it your plan to build scale of these businesses through acquisitions, just given that your rankings in some of these businesses are relatively low, or are these businesses being set up for divestitures?

And then my second question -- and I am sorry, Frank, for you -- just in thinking about the numbers for the fourth quarter and next year, just to be clear, your third quarter number that you reported adjusted is it -- am I correct in assuming that this number did not include net interest expense from Wyeth, and that the net interest expense from Wyeth will be included in the fourth quarter?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on the second question the answer is yes. It was not included preclose because we hadn't acquired the assets yet. Now that we have acquired those assets that will be included in adjusted on a going forward basis. But the short answer is yes.

JEFF KINDLER: This is a really interesting question and a good conversation to have. First of all let me say, obviously we are not in a position, for all the reasons you pointed out, to have the relative weighting toward the non-pharma business that some other companies do.

However, I think it is also important to think of the rankings of these companies in a different way. For example, our Animal Health business is going to be, and is, one of the top Animal Health companies. Independent of its weighting within Pfizer, it is an extremely important Animal Health business.

These businesses also have the opportunity -- we have already seen that in the past and I think we are going to see it more in the future -- they have the opportunity to create interdependent value for want of a better -- I'll probably have to come up with a better phrase than that -- relationships with the other businesses. The opportunity, for example, to market a full range of products in places like China that includes nutrition, vaccines, consumer products and the rest creates a footprint in a marketplace like that that I think gives us terrific benefits.

Now it is early days, and I am not today putting forth the specifics around that, but I think those are benefits to the company as a whole that we need to explore and give these businesses the opportunity to grow.

So I think there is lots of benefits to having those inside of the company. So the short answer is, no, we are not setting them up to be sold; we are setting them up to grow. We are giving the businesses the opportunity to do that. Having said that, like every other business in this company, they will compete for capital based on appropriate hurdle rates based on the risks and returns that they present.

And the combination of all of these businesses together I think will give the overall company a unique platform. But it is ultimately incumbent upon us and the leadership to allocate capital appropriately among them, and to encourage them to grow appropriately.

Then as I said earlier in response to Tim, it is our responsibility as stewards of our owners' capital to make portfolio judgments as we go forward. But going into this we are excited about all these businesses, not just as individual businesses, but also for the opportunities they may create among each other. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Eric Lo, Banc of America.

ERIC LO, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: With regards to the dividend -- I know you guys have a December Board meeting to discuss the dividend -- but going forward will the dividend increases continue to be an annual occurrence, or may we expect to see it occur more than once a year?

And second question is with regards to the Animal Health business, the business has been improving overall, but what is your long-term growth outlook for that business?

And the last question I have is with regard to IMS recently raised their overall outlook for US and global drug sales for the next five years. Do you agree with this outlook? And more specifically for Pfizer, what type of impact or benefit are you expecting from the economy over the next three to four quarters?

JEFF KINDLER: Regarding the dividend, our historical practice has been to review it once a year. With regard to Animal Health and IMS, let me ask Ian to address that.

IAN READ: So Animal Health we see it as a growth business. With the products we have acquired from Wyeth we have a great platform, both in livestock and companion animal and in vaccines. And frankly we will be a large company in that segment and expect to grow it.

Vis-a-vis IMS' revised forecast, I really think it is too early to tell. This is the third revision of the forecast by IMS, and they have basically taken it back to the forecast pre economic turbulence. I think it is far too soon to make that call. In Europe, where we have one payer systems, they are setting their budget for next year. They tend to react slower than perhaps the US in the healthcare arena. Not clear as to how they will set their budgets for healthcare next year and the impact on us.

In the US I remain concerned by the unemployment. The unemployment takes people out of insurance. It puts them into the cash market. And we've certainly seen on genericized segments where the managed care has the tools and more so in this economic environment to make shifts towards generic usage. So a long answer to say I think there is a lot too early to call the final consequences of the economic downturn on the pharmaceutical market.

OPERATOR: [Parura Perez], UBS.

PARURA PEREZ, ANALYST, UBS: Just a couple for you. Firstly, given some of the recent hiccups or setbacks you have had on the oncology pipeline, can you talk about your outlook for the oncology business unit for next couple of years?

And then, Frank, can you provide a rough estimate of the EPS contribution from the (inaudible) business for the fourth quarter of this year. I am sorry, if I missed out, if you addressed it already.

JEFF KINDLER: I will make a comment about oncology, but I might also ask Ian and Martin to weigh in on this. Oncology is a very tough field. And we are doing a tremendous number of experiments with Sutent, as well as other products. So, yes, we have had some setbacks. We have also had some successes.

And we are very optimistic about our portfolio. We think we have a very strong pipeline. And it is in the nature of this field, we are going to have some failures and some successes. But I'm very optimistic, because I believe we not only have a strong pipeline, I believe we have established a really world-class business.

And this is an example of something I was referring to earlier. The leadership that we have with Garry Nicholson and Mace Rothenberg, as well as on the research side, Neil Gibson and Bob Abrams, who joined us from Wyeth. I think these are world-class people. Both the pipelines from the two companies, as well as our alliances with outside organizations, academia and otherwise, I think will serve us very well to create a very strong oncology business. You want to add anything to this?

IAN READ: I will add something and Martin perhaps wants to as well. We have, to just echo Jeff, we have gone out of our way to build a very strong oncology organization. It is a global BU. It is led by Garry Nicholson, who has long experience in this. We have Mace Rothenberg and lots of other really critical people.

21 products -- 22 products between biologics and small molecules in development. Several first-in-class. We have a large commitment to this area and intend to be successful in that. That being said, there are ups and downs. It's a high-risk, high-reward area to work in. And in Sutent we have had a couple of setbacks, but we still have six Phase 3 trials in Sutent still to report out.

You know we had some very good news on the ALK/CMET inhibitor. And I intend to be -- I continue to be very encouraged by the strength of our portfolio and the strength of our organization.

MARTIN MACKAY: I completely concur with Jeff and Ian on this one. Having watched this portfolio grow from the late '90s, it has never been healthier. And for sure some results and clinical trials go against you; that is the nature of the business. But I look overall and see the strength of Garry Nicholson leading this business, the pipeline that we have, and some of the innovative trials we are running. Ian mentioned the cMET/ALK trial, which I think will transform the way it that we treat patients in this particular condition. We have never been in a better position in oncology.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And that was the Q4. He just wanted to know about Q4. Yes, so on the Q4, I think the way to think about it is, we increased our EPS guidance for the year to $2 to $2.05. Really two factors in that. One was stand-alone Pfizer contributed towards that increase, as did Wyeth. But I want to balance the Wyeth piece with -- remember what I said in my compared remarks, which was it was based on 7 billion shares, because you do a weighted average calculation for the year. Come January 1 of 2010, that number will increase to 8 billion shares.

OPERATOR: Scott Braunstein, JPMorgan.

SCOTT BRAUNSTEIN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I respect that you guys just closed the Wyeth deal, but last I checked this is still about selling products, so how about you guys give us the revenue over the next few days -- think about giving us the revenue for the Wyeth product? That would be very helpful. Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So we will be providing starting with Q4, and effective October 16, all the level of detail that we currently provide today. So if you look at our earnings release we have tables attached to that, and there is a couple of specific schedules that go into detail with the Wyeth products. We will incorporate the Wyeth products into those schedules on a going forward basis, and provide not only the total product sales, but US split, the international split for the quarter, year-to-date, just like we do today. So we fully plan on providing that level of detail.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Martin, a question for you. As you have traveled the globe visiting a number of R&D sites, I am curious if you have done so with Dr. Dohlsten, your new partner. And more importantly, as you all are making recommendations on site closures, how are the two of you sitting down to collaborate on who are the best people to keep? And how do you incentize those individuals were they to actually work at a site which is being shut down to perhaps move to another site? Because as you know, I am very big on the critical nature of the people and how I think that the best R&D people should remain. Because, like Scott said, it really is about the future products. Thanks.

MARTIN MACKAY: Thank you very much, Tony. And you know you and I are completely at one on this. We can talk about organization charts and structures and processes and government, what it comes down to at the end of the day is great people in our organization.

Jeff alluded to this in his opening. The fact that we were really able to hit the ground running in January when we announced the deal, and then naming people and really outstanding talent such as Michael Dohlsten, Emilio Emini, Manny Pangalos, has allowed us over this last period to work diligently on the people side of things, as well as on the portfolio and the site part.

You asked the question about traveling to sites. Michael and I have been to many sites together, including as recently as yesterday we gave a global webcast from Collegeville. We are acutely aware that the people will make the difference in running projects and areas, and we have both been particularly impressed with the talent on both sides of the company so far.

Frank mentioned that within 30 to 60 days we will make announcements. That will include people, that will include sites. It will include portfolio. And again having been through this on a number of occasions now, we have never moved at such speed and such diligently -- with such diligence over that period. I am very confident that what Michael and I are building is completely fit for purpose, and that you're going to see a number of really high-impact medicines coming out of this portfolio over the next few years.

CHUCK TRIANO: Okay, with that I would thank everybody for joining us today. Have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ahp : Wyeth Ltd | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091103e5ak000uq
  


 HD
 Q2  2009  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,041 words
   PD
22 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the second-quarter 2009 earnings call. Chuck Triano, you may now begin the call.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP IR, PFIZER: Thank you, operator, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review our second-quarter 2009 performance. I am here with Jeff Kindler, Frank D'Amelio, Ian Read, Martin Mackay, and Amy Shulman.

   TD
The financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at www.Pfizer.com in the Investor Presentations tab by clicking on the link, Quarterly Performance, Second Quarter 2009.

We know this is a busy day for many of you with other companies reporting and we will keep our opening remarks brief and then move to Q&A. The call will last for 45 minutes and we will end at 11.45.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2008 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K, dated today, July 22, 2009. These reports are available on our website at www.Pfizer.com in the Investors SEC Filing section.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Jeff Kindler.

JEFF KINDLER, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER: Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today. I will start this morning with a brief overview of our second-quarter results, then offer a few comments on the integration planning for the pending Wyeth acquisition, and conclude with a few short remarks on healthcare reform in the United States. And then, as always, I will turn it over to Frank for a more thorough review of the quarter.

First our results. On a constant currency basis every one of our Pharmaceutical units, as well as our Animal Health business, generated revenue growth during the quarter, with the exception of the Established Products unit. In previous calls we have explained that since the Established Products unit manages a portfolio of products that generally have loss patent protection or marketing exclusivity, it is expected to experience declining revenues at this stage of its lifecycle.

As you have heard from Dave Simmons, the President of that business, our plan is to recapture value for these products and ultimately stabilize and then grow revenue for the business. It is important to note that in this quarter this unit again performed in-line with our expectations, as did all of our business units.

Our solid second-quarter performance comes despite the effects of a challenging global economy and the highly competitive conditions we face in most of our markets. Despite the various challenges, our colleagues remain intensely focused on meeting our commitments to our shareholders.

As a result, we remain on track to meet our financial goals for 2009. In fact, today we are increasing our 2009 guidance for recorded and adjusted diluted earnings per share, as well as raising the lower end of the range on our 2009 revenue guidance.

As you saw in our release, we posted revenue of $11 billion in the second quarter. This represents a 9% decrease compared to the second quarter of last year. Revenues were flat on a constant currency basis.

Operationally many of our key products performed well, including Lyrica, Geodon, Sutent and Revatio, as well as Lipitor, which performed well internationally, despite intense generic competition.

As for the bottom line, we are building on the achievements of the last two years by continuing to reduce our cost base and improve our productivity. Overall operational improvements decreased our adjusted total costs by about $410 million in the second quarter.

We plan to reinvest a portion of these savings throughout the rest of the year, including increased investment in our emerging-market Emerging Markets and Established Products units, where we have identified important high potential growth opportunities.

For example, we plan on increasing our investment in China to continue to grow our field force and enhance our support for key product opportunities there, including Lipitor, Champix and Celebrex.

And following recent changes in the Chantix labeling here in the United States, we also plan to invest in increased communications with smokers and physicians about this important medicine.

In addition, we intend to further support our late stage development portfolio. This quarter we presented positive Phase 2 data on our JAK-3 inhibitor for rheumatoid arthritis, as well as positive Phase 1 data on our oral ALK inhibitor for patients with non-small cell lung cancer.

Our pipeline now includes more than 100 projects, and we remain on track to meet the R&D commitments we made to our shareholders last year. All of this demonstrates that our colleagues are focused on delivering on our commitments, even as Pfizer continues to change to meet the demands of an evolving global healthcare marketplace.

In that regard I am pleased to report that our planning to integrate Wyeth following the closing is moving ahead smoothly. Teams from both companies are meeting regularly, and our planning is being guided by lessons learned from past integrations. These teams have kept to a minimum the distraction and disruption that large-scale integrations can sometimes cause. And I believe this bodes very well for a successful and rapid integration once the transaction closes.

On the financing front, following the successful offering of notes in the US and Europe, we terminated the bridge loan facility that we entered into in order to finance a portion of the acquisition. No amount has been drawn down under that facility.

On the regulatory front we continue to engage in a constructive dialogue with the appropriate agencies around the world. Last week the European Commission approved the pending acquisition. A decision that includes our commitment to divest certain Animal Health assets in Europe. We are pleased to have achieved this significant milestone for the pending acquisition.

In China the Ministry of Commerce extended its review of our regulatory submission pass the initial 30 day review period. This was not unexpected, since this is the first major pharmaceutical transaction under China's new anti-monopoly law.

Here in the US the Securities and Exchange Commission last month declared our Form S-4 Registration Statement effective, registering our common stock to be issued in connection with the Wyeth acquisition. And on Monday Wyeth shareholders voted overwhelmingly to approve the merger of their company with Pfizer. This is an important milestone and we are grateful for their expression of confidence in Pfizer.

I want to take this opportunity to express my personal appreciation to Bernard Poussot for the outstanding leadership that he has provided and that he will continue to provide throughout this process.

All in all our planning is proceeding well. We remain on track to close the transaction around the end of the third quarter or during the fourth quarter. And we are confident that when the deal closes, we will be ready to execute our plans quickly.

Finally, I would like to comment briefly on US healthcare reform. At Pfizer, we have long expressed our support for comprehensive reform of the US healthcare system that would expand access, improve quality, and increase value, while preserving patient choices, the doctor/patient relationship, and strong incentives for medical innovation and American competitiveness.

We believe we have played a constructive role in the process and we will continue to do so. We are pleased that policymakers have been open to our ideas, and that we have the privilege of having a seat at the table.

An important step in this regard came a few weeks ago when we and our colleagues in the biopharmaceutical industry reached an agreement to help millions of senior citizens achieve improved access to high-quality and affordable healthcare coverage. Helping to fill the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap will help seniors afford (technical difficulty) medicines, which will improve health outcomes and lead to better control of chronic diseases.

Regarding proposals related to the taxation of overseas earnings, we are encouraged that policymakers have announced plans to review this in the scope of overall tax reform, in all likelihood sometime next year. Now, obviously, that the legislative process is far from final, and it is premature to predict the impact that it may ultimately have on our business. But we will continue to participate constructively in the policy discussions.

Before turning it over to Frank, let me just sum up by saying that like many other businesses we face a challenging economy and tough competition. And in our case we also face a very dynamic operating environment and the particular challenges of significant losses of exclusivity.

I am proud of the fact that the changes that we have made over the past three years in our operating model and in our culture. But most importantly the enormous skill and dedication of our people have enabled us to overcome those challenges, to seize the many opportunities ahead of us, and to continue to deliver on our commitments. And we will continue to do just that.

With that, I will turn it over to Frank to give you more detail on the second quarter.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER: Good morning everyone. The charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast and will help facilitate the discussion of our second-quarter 2009 results. Now let me get to our financials.

Our second-quarter results, as well as our results for the first-half of 2009, remains consistent with our expectations, given the continued challenging economic and operating environment. Reported revenues for the second quarter of '09 were $11 billion, a decrease of 9% year-over-year. On an operational basis revenues were essentially flat; however, foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately $1.1 billion or 9%.

Second-quarter 2009 reported net income was $2.3 billion, a 19% decrease compared with the year-ago quarter. And reported diluted EPS was $0.34 compared with $0.41, both driven by the negative impact of foreign exchange, the increase in the effective tax rate related to the financing of the pending Wyeth acquisition, and acquisition related costs. These were partially offset by cost reduction initiatives, lower costs associated with cost reduction initiatives, and lower IPR&D charges in 2009.

Adjusted income of $3.2 billion and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.48 decreased year-over-year by 12% and 13%, respectively. These results reflect the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and the increase in the effective tax rate, which were partially offset by savings from cost reduction initiatives.

Adjusted revenues of $11 billion, which exclude a minimal amount of transition services from the sale of the consumer healthcare business, declined 9% year-over-year. Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 15.4% versus 16.9% in the prior-year quarter. The improvement was due to savings from ongoing cost reduction initiatives and foreign exchange, which decreased cost by $264 million versus the year-ago quarter.

Adjusted SI&A expenses decreased 12% or $432 million year-over-year due to savings from ongoing cost reduction initiatives and foreign exchange, which decreased expenses by about $253 million versus the prior-year quarter.

Adjusted R&D expenses decreased 11% or $213 million year-over-year due to savings from cost reduction initiatives and foreign exchange, which decreased expenses by approximately $68 million versus the prior-year quarter.

On an adjusted results basis foreign exchange decreased second-quarter revenues by approximately $1.1 billion or 9% year-over-year. In the year-ago quarter foreign-exchange increased revenues by $796 million or 7% versus the second quarter of 2007.

Cost reduction initiatives continued to favorably impact our adjusted total cost this quarter. In addition, foreign exchange reduced these costs by approximately $585 million or 8% year-over-year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, adjusted total cost decreased operationally by $412 million or 5% year-over-year.

While foreign exchange continued to lower our costs and expenses, it also continued to lower revenue this quarter, resulting in a year-over-year net decrease of $0.05 related to adjusted diluted EPS.

Now let's move to the results of our businesses. On a constant currency basis all Pharmaceutical units and Animal Health achieved revenue growth, with the exception of Established Products, whose products, as Jeff explained, have generally lost patent protection or marketing exclusivity resulting in revenue declines at this stage of their lifecycle.

Primary Care revenues were $5.1 billion, a decrease of 6% year-over-year. Operational growth of 1%, driven by Lyrica's strong international performance, was more than offset by the 7% unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on revenues.

Specialty Care revenues of $1.4 billion decreased 5% versus the prior-year quarter. Operational growth of 2%, driven by the solid US performance of certain products such as Revatio and Geodon, were more than offset by the 7% unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.

Oncology revenues of $352 million decreased by 8% year-over-year. Operational growth of 4%, driven by Sutent's and Aromasin's strong international performance, was more than offset by the 12% negative impact of foreign exchange on revenues.

Revenues for the Established Products business were $1.6 billion, a year-over-year decrease of 20%. Operationally, Established Products revenues decreased 13% year-over-year, and foreign exchange unfavorably impacted revenues by an additional 7%.

Revenues generated in Emerging Markets were $1.5 billion, a decrease of 8% year-over-year. Operational growth, primarily driven by China and Turkey, of 9% was more than offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange, which unfavorably impacted revenues by 17%.

Animal Health revenues of $648 million decreased 9% versus the prior-year quarter. Operational growth of 2% driven by emerging markets and certain new products worldwide was more than offset by the 11% negative impact of foreign exchange.

During the second quarter we continued to make progress on our ongoing cost reduction initiatives, achieving about $410 million in net cost reductions versus the year-ago quarter on a constant currency basis. These cost reduction initiatives continue to span essentially all divisions, functions, markets and sites across Pfizer. Broad categories of activity include manufacturing and research site exits, targeted workforce reductions, and outsourcing.

We continue to have opportunities for outsourcing, which include manufacturing, logistics, finance, facilities, legal and IT. And these are in various stages of implementation. For example, outsourced manufacturing comprises about 24% of manufacturing versus 17% at year-end 2008.

We are also continuing to size our work force level with current market dynamics, with a work force level of 76,500 at quarter end. This represents a net decrease of about 5,400 compared with year-end 2008. Since the beginning of 2008 our total workforce decreased by approximately 10,100 people.

For the first-half of 2009 we realized a decrease of about $740 million in adjusted total cost at 2008 exchange rates. During the second half of the year we expect to make investments in business opportunities and in support of our late-stage development portfolio, among other things, which will offset a portion of these savings.

We remain on track to achieve our $2 billion net cost reduction target by 2011, which is in addition to the approximately $4 billion in deals synergies related to the pending acquisition of Wyeth that we expect to realize by 2012.

Now moving on to 2009 financial guidance. We remain on track to achieve our 2009 objectives. And today we are increasing the lower end of our revenue and increasing our adjusted diluted EPS guidance. We currently expect reported 2009 revenues to be within the range of $45 billion to $46 billion versus our previous expectation of $44 billion to $46 billion. And we now expect adjusted diluted EPS to be within the range of $1.90 to $2 compared with the previously expected $1.85 to $1.95.

We are also improving the guidance for adjusted SI&A and R&D expenses, and increasing the lower end of the range of adjusted other income guidance, while reaffirming the remaining components of the 2009 guidance, including adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue.

And as I said, we continue to expect to achieve our net savings target of $2 billion by 2011 versus '08 at 2008 foreign exchange rates.

As Jeff previously explained, to date we have achieved significant milestones related to our pending acquisition of Wyeth. The items remaining include continuing to execute on our '09 goals, and obtaining the remaining regulatory approvals, continuing to develop detailed synergy plans, and ultimately closing the transaction.

We continue to expect the transaction to close late in the third quarter or during the fourth quarter. So to summarize the key takeaways, we continued to deliver solid operational results, despite a challenging macroeconomic environment. On an operational basis our total revenues were essentially flat year-over-year. We reduced our cost by approximately $410 million this quarter on a constant currency basis due to operational cost improvements. And we have increased the lower end of our 2009 reported revenue guidance range and raised our adjusted diluted EPS guidance ranges, improved guidance for certain expense items, and narrowed adjusted other income guidance.

Finally, our integration planning remains -- our integration planning remains on track, while we continue to advance our integration plans.

And now I will turn it back over to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks for the review, Frank. Operator, at this point if we could move to the Q&A segment, please. Thanks.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I wanted to ask you two questions. One is related to the repatriation and tax rate. I was wondering if you could kind of, even just in relative terms, put into context how much repatriation the Company did this quarter versus past history. Was it double? Was it 25% more? Just give me something directional so I can appreciate the tax rate and the impact of that activity.

And then also along that line, I am trying to square the fact that your interest expense for the Wyeth deal seems more manageable perhaps than your conservative scenario that you had put forward when the deal was announced. I am wondering if you have any thoughts on whether that means you'll need to bring back less, and the impact on tax rate? I know that is kind of a long-winded question, but if you could address those issues.

The second question, just to put them both out there, is related to the US review. I understand that you have certified compliance and that you provided FDC everything they need for the second phase. Could you confirm that is correct? And if so, what was the date for when that happened?

JEFF KINDLER: Obviously, Frank will take the first question and Amy the second one.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on repatriation, we said at the beginning of the year we would repatriate international earnings. We have been repatriating international earnings. And obviously we have been repatriating more international earnings than we have in the past. And the way you can see that is in the tax rate.

If you look at the adjusted rate last year in Q2 it was 20%. This quarter it was with 28.1%. And there will be some, I will call it, volatility in the quarterly tax rate. Last quarter it was 29.7% -- this quarter 28.1%. 29% on a year-to-date basis. We reinforced the guidance of approximately 30% on that tax rate for the year.

And what causes that volatility? The changes from quarter to quarter are really just, I will call it, geographic mix, where the income is that we are repatriating, and the different jurisdictions have different tax rates. So that is the way to think about the repatriation.

Relative to the interest rates, we took out the bridge facility with two tranches or two offerings here in the US. The rates we paid, I will call it, on blended basis for those two offerings were about 5.5%. And I would call it from my perspective we did good relative to what we went out with and the rates that we got. And clearly that is what is driving the interest expense relative to the Wyeth -- what we are doing from a financing perspective to get ready for the Wyeth acquisition.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Amy, on the FTC.

AMY SCHULMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER: So let me reiterate what we have stated previously, which is that we continue to work cooperatively with the FTC. We have been responsive to all of their requests. And continue to believe, as we have stated previously, that we are on target to achieve a close towards the end of the third quarter or during the fourth quarter.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you. Operator, next question.

OPERATOR: [David Reisinger], Morgan Stanley.

DAVID REISINGER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have some revenue questions and then a R&D question. In terms of revenue, the revenue performance seems to be a bit sluggish in both the US and ex-US, even excluding currency. I was just hoping that maybe Ian could comment on how you evaluate the negative impact of sales and marketing spending cuts on revenue, given that there must be some trade-off, and how you balance that. And also how you're tracking towards the $70 billion in revenue in '12?

And then on R&D, I am just wondering how you plan to evaluate internal R&D productivity now and going forward, given the change to move molecules to the business unit leaders after Phase 2. Particularly since the business units may make different decisions than the R&D team would have planned. So I would appreciate your thoughts on that as well, Martin.

JEFF KINDLER: Let's break this, if I could, into a number of different parts. So maybe Ian can talk about the impact on marketing spend on the revenue and give you some thoughts about '12. But I would also like Frank to address the $70 billion '12 issue. And then both Martin and Ian may have some thoughts about R&D productivity metrics under the new (technical difficulty). That's okay. So you will hear from all of us on those various subjects, if that's okay.

So Ian, why don't you start.

IAN READ, PRESIDENT GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS, PFIZER: So, David, firstly I think on the -- Frank may have more specific numbers -- but I was very satisfied with the ex-US performance on operational growth. It is being masked a little bit by exchange, but operationally it was a very strong quarter and strong year-to-date in both Lipitor and Lyrica and Celebrex and most of our major franchises, including Sutent.

Regarding the question of how we balance the field force support and the revenue, we look at it in -- [with] sophisticated models. And I think what we are seeing here is, in the first-half at any rate, is a temporary dislocation of field force focused in the US as we move to a new Primary Care field force model.

We feel this model is important, as we see the loss of effectiveness of traditional detailing, and we sort of move to a de-averaging approach in the US, where -- when traditional detailing works, like in Alabama, we have traditional detailing. And where in the West, where you have more group practices and you need different approaches, we go to those different approaches. So we look at brand by brand. And I am satisfied that, aside from what I think is a temporary dislocation as new relationships are established, that our brand have a healthy level of support.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Why don't we turn to the 2012 number, Frank, Dave asked about.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Dave, let me just spend one minute to punctuate something Ian said in terms of the results for the quarter and year-to-date. From an international perspective, if you remove the impact of foreign exchange, we are up operationally about 2%. So about 2% in the quarter, and about 2% to -- 2% on a year-to-date basis. So operationally from my perspective up, in clearly a challenging overall environment.

And with some products performing very well on the international market. Lyrica and Sutent, if you look at how they are performing for an international growth perspective year-over-year, quarter and year-to-date, they are both growing, give or take, about 30%. So those are clearly two of the reasons why the international number operationally is up 2%.

On the $70 billion, this is a question that we periodically get asked. The way I think about it is if you look at, I will call it, some of the consensus numbers out there, the average numbers, they average around $65 billion. Then obviously we will look at some of the details of that, and clearly we think, if you look at those numbers versus our own estimates on the $70 billion, the two areas where, I will call it, there are differences are in line products and what we believe we can do with products like Lyrica, Sutent and Chantix versus what some of the consensus numbers are.

And then Established Products in emerging markets, where we think there is lots of opportunities. For example, this quarter Emerging Markets grew 9% on an operational basis. And in the focus countries, in priority countries, like China and Turkey.

I use statistics on this and I have said this before. If you talk about Asia Pacific and remove Australia, New Zealand and Japan, in 2008 that was a $50 billion market. We had 4% of that market. By 2012 we think that is a $70 billion to $80 billion market. If we only kept our 4%, we would pick up $1 billion in incremental revenue. If we can pick up a share, 1 point a share -- for every point we pick up it is $700 million, $800 million. We think we can pick up a point or two a share, because of our ability to execute in these markets.

Given our capabilities in these markets, our field force in these markets, our relationships in these markets, our logistical capabilities in these markets, we think clearly there is lots of opportunity there for us to not only hold our share, but to grow share. So those are the kinds of things that we think help us get to the $70 billion.

And business development will also be a contributor to helping us to achieve the $70 billion. So that is how we --.

JEFF KINDLER: Let me suggest, Dave, to get to your final part, I do want to -- this is obviously a very, very important topic, R&D productivity and metrics that we could spend a lot of time on, but there is a lot of folks in the queue and I want to get to other questions. So let me just ask briefly, Martin, give you the perspective from research and Ian from the perspective of the business units.

MARTIN MACKAY, PRESIDENT GLOBAL R&D , PFIZER: Yes, I will be brief. First of all, to say the commitments that we made in March '08 still stand today. In fact, of the four commitments we have made, one we have already achieved, and that was the number of Phase 3 starts in the first year from that date. And the other three are all on track to be achieved.

That is clearly very important to our productivity that we move our pipeline into that Phase 3, that cohort along, and obviously onto the marketplace. That stands today.

In terms of the R&D piece and the handoff as positive proof of concept, which scientifically and clinically makes absolutely the most sense to move it into the business unit. And whilst it is a handoff, I can say that the business units are heavily involved prior to that decision. And clearly R&D are heavily involved after that decision. So for example, we are doing mechanistic studies in JAK-3 and Dimebon and other programs.

What I have really noticed, and a piece that has exceeded my expectations in terms of moving to the business unit model, has been the prioritization going on. And like never before we are seeing folks looking at our portfolio, and making in some cases pretty tough decisions on what areas that we should invest more in and what areas we should pull out of.

So I think it has been well documented that we stopped some late-stage programs. But the really important thing is that we invested more heavily in these critical programs such as JAK-3, Tanezumab, our IGF-1R antibody and Axitinib. And this is a very positive and meaningful step forward, I believe.

IAN READ: I think Martin really described it very well. The only thing I would add is that I think one of the advantages of this shift of proof of concept is the increased focus that the business unit will bring on clinical outcomes and outcomes research and meeting access needs. And that is also healthy.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Goldman Sachs.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Frank, a couple of questions for you. First, obviously in this sort of -- in line with the previous question, obviously R&D productivity has been a huge issue for the Company over the past eight, nine years or so. When you look at the combined R&D expense of both Wyeth and Pfizer it is about $10.5 billion. Can you share with us how you think about what the appropriate level of R&D spend should be?

Then my second question is, when you announced the deal with Wyeth in January you sent a message to investors when you cut the dividend. Now once the deal closes, I am just curious to know what will be the message you want to send on the dividend going forward?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on R&D productivity, your numbers are roughly right. The combined spend of the two companies last year was almost $11 billion. We were about $7.6 billion, and I think Wyeth was about $3.3 billion, which is $10.9 billion, which is around the $11 billion.

In terms of what the spend of R&D will be for the combined company, we have looked at lots of different metrics on this in terms of benchmarking, productivity. And I think the short directional answer is, it will be less. So it will be less R&D spending for the combined company than there is for the two stand-alone companies as they exist today.

What that number will settle at, we are still working on. We are working through detailed planning with Martin and with Mikael Dolsten from Wyeth, as well as with many folks on our respective teams. And so that will -- that work is all very much under way. And lots of details work is taking place in that area. But I think the short answer to the question is, it will be less.

In terms of the dividend, you're right. Back in January when we announced the Wyeth transaction we cut the dividend in half. So it was $1.28 annually, $0.32 a quarter. We cut that to $0.16 a quarter, $0.64 annually,. If you think about the number of shares we will have post close it will be about 8 billion shares. So if you run the numbers, it will still be about a $5 billion dividend, but we also saved $5 billion in US cash flow, all of which was part of our planning for financing the acquisition.

In terms of going forward for the dividend, from my perspective we have lots of opportunities on how to deploy our capital, how to deploy our cash. The five priority areas that we typically talk about are the level of the dividend that we pay, share buybacks, debt paydown, business development, and the level of earnings we repatriate from overseas, because we could choose at some point to repatriate less, which would lower the tax rate and raise our earnings.

Now all of those are priority areas. And we will do what we always do, which is try to deploy capital in terms of what is best from a total shareholder return prospective.

Then specific to the dividend, now each year in December we have a Board meeting, and one of the topics of that Board meeting is what the dividend payout will be for the following year. So in December of 2009 at our Board meeting we will make a determination of what the dividend payout should be for 2010.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: A couple of questions for you. So going back to your 2012 comments, you mentioned three products that might account for the gap between the consensus model and your internal model -- Lyrica, Chantix and Sutent. But it seems like Lyrica continues to decline. Chantix has been kind of struggling as well, and then Sutent it seems like it has flattened out. So I don't know what -- I guess my question is, why do you see the future of those products differently than how the Street might see them?

And second question is on Emerging Markets. Your underlying growth ex currency seems to be a little bit lower than what I would expect by looking at what some of the other drug companies are reporting. And I am wondering is that just a function of the mix of those revenues or what exactly?

JEFF KINDLER: Ian.

IAN READ: Tim, let me try the emerging markets first. Frankly, you know, I believe we were up operationally 9% in the quarter, and up 12% in the key markets, some of the BRICK markets we look at. And when I compare IMS data across those markets of our competitors, we are very competitive. In fact, we are running neck to neck with Novartis, and that is our major competitor in those marketplaces vis-a-vis growth. So I am not quite sure what data you're looking at, but the data from IMS and where I am looking at I am satisfied that we are competitive in those marketplaces.

Regarding Lyrica, Chantix and Sutent, I think I will ask Martin to talk a little bit about the new indications of Sutent. This would be Lyrica. Lyrica's growth internationally -- I mean, Lyrica, while it has slowed up in the US, and that is undoubted and we can talk to that, but Lyrica was up 12% in the quarter globally operationally, up 18% year-to-date, up 32% internationally in the quarter, of which the whole franchise now international is half of the total Lyrica franchise.

So Lyrica per se in the US, let's talk about it. It is facing, as is Celebrex, as is Lipitor, a reasonably generitized market with managed care pressure and co-pays, and facing an economic downturn in the US. While at the same time we are remodeling our field force, which I think is essential to have a field force that fits the purpose for the healthcare environment we will be facing in the next two to three years in the US. So all of those things are undoubtedly a drag on the performance of Lyrica in the US.

We are focusing on fixing that by looking at driving up diagnosis growth for fibromyalgia, driving up the treatment of the pain indications, and using co-pays to try and offset the managed care tiering. So Lyrica, robust continued growth outside, and agreed, we have issues we need to fix in the US.

Chantix, the labeling discussion I think has -- will allow us to go forward and begin to reeducate from a firm base. The label was agreed upon on the FDA. That is important for us. That gives confidence to our field force. It allows us to talk about the product and start to really educate on that.

So you can see, in fact, in the first semester scripts are up above, I believe, 30% above the script rate of the fourth quarter. So with the labeling discussions behind us, I really believe we can now motivate our field force to move that product forward.

And on Sutent, I would just like Martin Mackay to make a few comments.

MARTIN MACKAY: Just briefly, as you know, we have approval for our renal cell carcinoma and gastric intestinal stromal tumor. Growth will come from other indications. And we continue with our breast cancer studies, our non-small cell lung carcinoma studies. And then in Phase 3 as somewhat earlier, the hepatocellular carcinoma and hormone refractory prostate cancer. So that is where we expect the growth to come from.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Thank you very much. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Harlan Sonderling, Columbia Asset Management.

HARLAN SONDERLING, ANALYST, COLUMBIA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Just a question please on the shift in sales ongoing from the established to the emerging markets, the strength there. Are you moving resources on the administrative sales and marketing side in advance of this move or in a lagging basis, such that you're able to maximize the opportunity?

IAN READ: I am night not quite sure if you are -- if you're talking about are we moving resources into emerging markets to strengthen our ability to drive growth, absolutely. We have been doing that over the last two to three years and we accelerated that.

I am not sure vis-a-vis your question on established and emerging, but the established business unit we are certainly resourcing it up in countries, giving at specific focused resources to drive out every opportunity country by country. Does that answer the question?

HARLAN SONDERLING: Somewhat. More to the point, on something like Lipitor, which is in decline in the United States, are you shifting resources out of that product in advance of that decline? Are you still fighting the battle for every point of market share? At what point do you begin to accelerate the removal of resources from the established, call it, the US market, where these sales trends are not favorable.

IAN READ: We continue to support Lipitor and the opportunities we see in the specific micro markets in the US. And we will continue to do that while we can drive growth.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Thank you. Next question.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Barclays Capital.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I wanted to stick with at least one product question, and that is on Sutent, which has done extremely well internationally, as you pointed out. But Ian, and maybe Martin, to some degree I am curious with a new entrant from Novartis and Afinitor, which at least in the US albeit new, has shown some traction in new prescription trends in renal cell carcinoma. And assuming its approval internationally, I am just curious if you have thought about, or had some best practices, to think from a competitive standpoint in the US that you're able to apply internationally that will allow that product to continue to grow, despite that competition?

IAN READ: I actually say that our -- I am not sure I will be sharing best practices from Europe into the US actually, given the performance internationally of Sutent -- growth of 31% in the second quarter. The US has done a very good job too. The US field force and our performance, we've got about 60% marketshare in first line.

We are getting competition, you're right. And the way we have to deal with that prior to new indications is to focus on maintaining the standard of care in first line, focus on keeping the dose at the right level, and getting the longest number of cycles as appropriate for the patient.

In the US it will be a slower growth rate, or a difficult market as we got competition coming in. But Sutent has got a lot of growth left internationally, and we've got six plus Phase 3 trials for new indications.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you. Next question please.

OPERATOR: John Boris, Citi.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI: A question for you, Jeff. Now that you have had an opportunity to really dig in and evaluate the Wyeth assets, can you comment on how you view the strategic positioning of the nutritional and consumer business? Traditionally Pfizer likes to have a number one or number two market share position in businesses that it is participating in. Could you just comment on the positioning of those businesses, and if there is a potential opportunity to divest those assets to help pay down debt?

The second question just has to do with cash flow. Cash flow in the quarter, if you can provide, Frank, any commentary on that?

And then third question just has to do with Aricept and the exclusivity there. I think you had indicated they weren't able to secure pediatric exclusivity. Can you just remind us a period time when it loses exclusivity and implications for the alliance revenue line.

JEFF KINDLER: I will let Frank talk about the cash flow, and Ian will cover the Aricept exclusivity. But regarding nutritional and consumer, John, they look -- and the more I have learned about them, they are really interesting and exciting businesses. We are not looking to do anything different but grow them. We are very excited about the people that are in them. And actually we think there are tremendous opportunities by combining our resources and our distribution channels, particularly in the emerging markets, with these assets and the people that are leading them. And we are very excited about the portfolio of products that they provide and the opportunities to meet unmet medical needs.

So our intention is to grow these businesses and to create additional value in combination with the assets and the people and the distribution channels that we have. So we are very excited about that. And, as you know, Cavan Redmond, who is one of Wyeth's terrific leaders, has agreed to join us. And among the businesses that he will be responsible for are nutritionals and consumers.

And in the conversations that we have already had he has already demonstrated that he will be bringing a lot of value to the table in helping us think about how to grow those businesses, both in and of themselves and in combination with ours. So we're quite excited about that.

Frank, do you want to talk about the cash flow?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, John, we haven't issued Q2 operating cash flow yet, but I can run numbers for you to give you a feel for the rhythm of the numbers. The Q1 operating cash flow number was $3.1 billion. That compared to $3.3 billion in last year's Q1 '08 operating cash flow number.

And then just in terms of the cash flow numbers for the last three years, last year was $18.2 billion. In '07 it was $13.4 billion, and in '06 it was like $17.4 billion. So first quarter of this year tracked closely to the first quarter of last year.

IAN READ: And from memory, the exclusivity in the US goes in the fourth quarter of '10, and in Europe or in Western Europe in '12. I am not sure exactly what month in 12. And I would model the response of the immediate release formulation to be similar to other patent products when they go off patent in those markets.

FRANK D'AMELIO: One other thing. The 13.4 billion in '07 had a stub tax payment associated with the sale of the consumer healthcare business, which reduced that number on a year-over-year.

JEFF KINDLER: We have time for one more please.

OPERATOR: James Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

JAMES FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: So just maybe getting a little bit deeper into the questions around Wyeth and the opportunities in the emerging markets. Can you give us your thoughts on the interaction of the vaccine portfolio that Wyeth brings to the table as it links to nutritional and consumer in the international markets, and how, perhaps, revenue synergies with those new products might start to help to support the $70 billion revenue estimate? Again, you're talking about 2 percentage points of market share gains, but as we look at the growth that we are seeing in emerging markets, while it is good, it is not so strong that I think that you would get that kind of a jump in marketshare.

JEFF KINDLER: It is premature to be putting out any kind of revenue synergy numbers, and we are not doing that. And the transaction hasn't closed, so we are not putting forth anything like that. I will just tell you that we are having right at this point appropriate and preliminary, but still very exciting, conversations with the Wyeth people about opportunities for our businesses to work together.

And you have certainly identified one of those areas, where we think there are tremendous opportunities and potential between the businesses. So stay tuned and as we go forward and close the deal, which is our focus at this point, we look forward to lots of opportunities to talk to you about the potential that these two businesses have to drive great value for our patients and shareholders going forward.

So with that, I would like to thank you all for your attention and interest today. And I hope you all have a good day. Thanks a lot.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
ahp : Wyeth Ltd | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
e1101 : Economic Growth | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | gpersf : Personal Finance | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090805e57m0018u
  


 HD
 Q3  2008  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,415 words
   PD
21 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Pfizer's third quarter earnings call, and now Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP OF IR, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, operator. And good morning, everybody. And thank you for joining us today to review our third quarter 2008 performance. I'm here with Jeff Kindler, Frank D'Amelio, Ian Read, Martin Mackay, and Amy Schulman. The financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at www.pfizer.com in the Investor Presentations tab by clicking on the link Quarterly Corporate Performance Third Quarter 2008. We know this is a busy day for many of you with other companies reporting earnings, and our conference call will last an hour and we will end at 11:00.

   TD
Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2007 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. Also the discussions during the conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated October 21st, 2008. These reports are available on our website at www.pfizer.com in the Investors SEC Filing section. With that, I will now turn the call over to Jeff Kindler. Jeff?

JEFF KINDLER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Chuck. Good morning, everyone, and thanks again for joining us. To state the obvious, none of us has ever seen anything like the unprecedented turbulence of the past few weeks, but while the outlook for the global economy is uncertain and while no one, including us, is immune from its effects, I want to be very clear about two things. One, Pfizer remains in a very solid financial position to address the challenges and seize the opportunities ahead. And, two, the changes that we have made over the past two years have enabled us to adapt quickly and effectively to a fast changing and often uncertain operating environment.

Now, on the first point, as you know, we have a strong balance sheet, excellent liquidity, high quality credit ratings and substantial operating cash flow. We also have a solid and conservative investment portfolio. In short, Pfizer is a financially strong company.

On the second point, the changes that we have made over the past two years enable us to operate quickly and effectively in an industry and a world marked by uncertainty. While this work is never finished, I am very proud of what our colleagues have achieved in a very short time and in a very difficult environment. Even as compared to just a year ago at this time, we are a much leaner, more disciplined and more agile organization. We have stronger leadership throughout the company, our strategies are clear and well understood by our colleagues, we are much better at managing costs and at allocating capital, and we are also getting better and better at the basic and fundamental requirements of executing and keeping our commitments. I believe that the quarterly and year-to-date results that we have announced today, the guidance we have given for the balance of the year on revenue, costs, and earnings, the progress we have made on the strategies we shared in March -- particularly in our pipeline -- all of these and more demonstrate that we have made meaningful progress in reshaping Pfizer into a company that has the capability and the agility to manage through uncertainty and challenges.

And of course we have faced significant challenges and uncertainties this year. That, as you all know is the nature of our business. With that said, we know that it is our job to manage our way through these challenges and still deliver on our commitments. And we are doing so. For that reason, although no one can predict with certainty what will happen in the global economy, I have confidence that we and our colleagues around the world will continue to manage our way through the uncertainty and challenges ahead.

Now, in that regard, one of the most important changes we have made is our reshaping the company into smaller, more focused business units. As you'll recall, this was a priority that I first highlighted for you a few months after I was appointed to this position when we spoke at the beginning of last year. Since then, we have made very significant progress. In particular, after having created business units in oncology and in established products earlier this year, in this quarter we added three new global units within our pharmaceutical operations to serve primary care, specialty care, and emerging markets. Along with animal health, each of our six global units spans clinical and commercial development, medical, marketing, and sales, including management of the life cycles of our medicines after they lose exclusivity. Each unit is led by an experienced world class general manager, a leader with the authority and resources to respond quickly to the needs of their distinct customers around the world while aggressively pursuing new avenues for growth. Each of the respective leaders of these six units represents a single point of accountability for all aspects of their business, after our research and biotherapeutics and bioinnovation center organizations deliver quality compounds that have achieved proof of concept and that are ready for further clinical development and commercialization.

Now, this is a marked departure from the way that Pfizer and, I believe, most companies in our industry have operated in the past. It enables us to move forward with the entrepreneurial zeal of six smaller but still very substantial businesses backed by the strength and the global reach of a strong global enterprise. The combination of these two attributes, the spirit of small in those areas where being small improves results, and the power of scale in those areas where scale is an advantage represent a unique competitive advantage for Pfizer in these different markets and these fast changing times.

Now I'd like to give you a few examples of how this approach is already changing the way we do business. Let's look at emerging markets, where we are operating with ever increasing speed and agility. In China, for example, we told you in March that we had set a goal of moving into 126 cities by the end of this year. We achieved that goal seven months ahead of schedule and we are now expecting to be in 137 cities in China by the end of the year. Now, China has 160 cities with population above 1 million people. That makes each of them roughly the size of Dallas or even bigger. That should give you some sense of the opportunities that we have. In Latin America, revenues are up 14% operationally over last year, making it our fastest growing region. Within that region, Brazil has seen revenues grow at double-digit rates despite the fact that several of our products have no patent protection there.

Indeed, marketing a portfolio that includes some products that lack patent protection is just one of the kinds of distinct challenges and opportunities that we face in emerging markets. Our very experienced teams in these countries will now be led by Jean-Michel Halfon, a dynamic leader with 31 years of experience operating in pharmaceutical businesses around the world. Jean-Michel and his colleagues will bring greater focus and authority in seeking opportunities to create value in the fastest growing markets on earth. And believe me, having spent time with colleagues in many of these markets, I can tell you that they are enthusiastically and aggressively pursuing those opportunities to create new value.

That to be sure, the current challenges in the global economy may diminish the recent rate of growth some of in some of these opportunities but in both the short and long term opportunities in these parts of the world remain enormous. The urgent need to provide millions of people with greater access to valuable medicine whether they are patent protected or not, primary or specialty, will not change in these countries. We are excited about bringing our broad portfolio of such medicines to new consumers.

As I have said before, we believe we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of these opportunities because we have been there longer than most of our competitors. We have a very positive reputation with governments and key opinion leaders. The Pfizer brand and the brands of our various medicines have significant equity with doctors and patients and we have a uniquely broad range of therapeutic offerings both on and off patent.

Now, in addition to these advantages, another factor driving results in these markets is the established products unit led by Dave Simmons. Dave, as you know, is responsible for Pfizer's business in what is and what is likely continue to be, especially in challenging economic times, a fast growing segment of the global biopharmaceutical industry, and I'm pleased to tell you today that in the 10 months since we have formed that unit, Dave and his team have turned a number of products with flat or declining revenues into products that are growing again. In fact, among this unit's many brands, six products with aggregate annual sales in excess of $1 billion are all experiencing accelerated growth year to date, some of them moving from declines to positive growth. Over time we expect profitable growth from this important part of our business as we introduce new products and formulations and develop new and innovative selling models.

Moreover, Dave's team is demonstrating in a very tangible way what happens when we in senior management get out of the way of the people that are closest to our customers, a concrete and current example. As you know, a few weeks ago, the FDA banned one of our competitors from importing more than 30 generic drugs into the US because of serious violations at their Indian manufacturing plants. The outstanding quality track record of Pfizer's world leading manufacturing colleagues, the fact that regulators and patients know that they can count on us, is a great competitive advantage in a situation like this. So Dave and his team moved quickly and without letting any bureaucracy get in their way. Within about 48 hours from the announcement of the FDA ban, the Pfizer established products business captured about 60% of our competitor's business in two important medicines.

Now, I recognize that this particular action won't produce a large amount of new revenues, but I think it clearly demonstrates very vividly our things have changed here, and it is a model for how we are operating and will continue to operate with all of the business units. And I want to say this very clearly. This could not have happened at Pfizer two years ago and probably not even a year ago. But fast, customer focused, value creating actions driven by decisive accountable leaders are happening now all over Pfizer.

Now, while established products is a multibillion-dollar business with significant growth opportunities, our core business, of course, remains providing innovative patent protected medicines. In that regard, the branded biopharmaceutical industry in the United States is certainly facing a tough environment. Overall, US prescription volume has been more or less flat this year for the industry and most of the growth has come from generics. Of course each product represents distinct challenges and opportunities, and Ian will be prepared to address any of those with you in Q&A, but I'd like to make a couple of overarching points about the US marketplace.

First, I think it's fair to say that partly as a result of the changes that we (inaudible) Pfizer's field force and marketing organization is more than holding its own against branded competitors. These colleagues are building on Pfizer's outstanding heritage in sales and marketing and reearning their proud reputation as the best in the business -- the representatives most responsive to patients and physicians. Specifically, in the US we have seven products that are outperforming the branded competition in their respective categories and four more that are holding steady against newer agents. Now, of course success against branded competitors doesn't by itself fully address one of the most significant features of the US operating environment, the increased use of generics, but it's noteworthy that overall, more than 10 of our US medicines posted double-digit gains in the quarter.

In that regard, I think it's important to note that if you look at worldwide therapeutic categories as a whole, branded and generic, we have at least 10 products that are ranked number one based on IMS sales volume and we continue to build, maintain, and demonstrate category leadership unmatched in the industry. Even Lipitor, faced with heightened generic competitive and payer pressures, the likes of which has never been seen before, still captures 43% of global lipid lowering market share. In fact, I think the recent stabilization of Lipitor's total prescription volume in the US is a good example of how we are learning to operate better in this challenging environment.

Beyond that, however, we know that we must and we will continue to adapt our commercial model in the most innovative and efficient way possible in the US as elsewhere to respond successfully to pricing pressures in generic competition. Our new business units, with their intense focus on what works best in their particular categories and with their freedom to deploy new commercial models, will accelerate our progress in doing so. Of course at the end of the day, patients, physicians ,and payers will continue to value innovative and meaningfully differentiated products, even as pricing pressures continue. So our R&D and business development activities continue to focus on providing exactly those kinds of medicines. Meanwhile, the encouraging progress our commercial organization has made gives me confidence that over time we can provide growing numbers of US patients access to those kinds of medicines, whether it is currently available medicine like Lyrica, Chantix, and Sutent, or future medicines now in development.

The challenges in the US also in my view reinforce the value of our international businesses, which are leaders in the vast majority of the therapeutic and geographic markets in which they compete. As you can see from today's release outside the US and the markets that accounted for nearly 60% of our total reported revenues so far this year, we have more than 10 in-line products achieving double-digit operational growth year to date, excluding the effects of foreign exchange. While there is certainly more work to be done, I believe these results demonstrate that the geographical and therapeutic diversification of our business, combined with an increasingly fast and nimble organization, give us good reason for confidence that we are getting better and better at managing our business in the face of tough challenges and uncertainties here and around the world.

The kinds of changes I have described, implemented by an organization that is intensely focused on execution, have kept us on track to meet and even improve upon our full-year objectives for 2008 despite the challenges specific to our company and those more general to the economy and the industry. In that regard, today we have reaffirmed and tightened our revenue and earnings guidance for the year within the previously announced ranges and we have also increased our cost reduction target for the year.

Now, that last point bears emphasizing. We told you at the beginning of last year that by the end of this year we would reduce our absolute costs by at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion compared to 2006 on a constant currency basis. As you have seen from our release, we have now achieved that goal a full quarter ahead of schedule. And it's worth noting that we achieved our goal even after absorbing inflation and reinvesting in the business. Since we announced this goal in January of last year, we have reduced our absolute costs by more than $1.7 billion. I'm aware of no other company in our industry that is reducing absolute costs to that degree, either in dollars or percentage terms. As a result of our progress to date, we are now projecting that our absolute cost reduction on a constant currency basis will be at least $2 billion by the end of the year. And, of course, we will continue to focus on costs -- as I've said before, we will establish a cost structure appropriate to our revenues going forward. Perhaps more importantly than these particular numbers, I am confident in telling you today that cost management and a commitment to continuously improving productivity along with a relentless pursuit of new avenues for revenue growth has become a fundamental part of our everyday life at Pfizer.

Now, of course, cost cutting alone obviously can't create the long-term growth that our owners expect and deserve. In that regard, I'm pleased to report that we remain on track to meet the pipeline commitments we made to you in March. At that time we told you our goal -- to grow our Phase III pipeline to at least 24 and as many as 28 new molecular entities or new indications by the end of next year. Since we announced those targets in March, we have increased our late stage portfolio from 16 to 25 programs. We are targeting 15 to 20 regulatory submissions in the period 2010 to 2012. And we are vigorously driving our investments in biotechnology with 16 biotherapeutics now in development, including a fully human monoclonal antibody, which recently began Phase 3 testing against non-small cell lung cancer, the leading cause of cancer death in the United States.

These are important advances, and we are proud that so many of them are coming from our own labs, but we also know we must supplement our activities internally by accessing the best possible opportunities outside the company. In September, for example, we entered into an agreement with Medivation to jointly develop Dimebon, their late stage medication to treat Alzheimers and Huntington's disease. Medivation's choice of us from among many competitors is a solid endorsement of our capabilities and we are looking forward to a long and productive relationship with them.

So in sum, we have been building a strong organizational and cultural foundation for the future. While that work continues, we are now all about executing on our strategies, on quickly adapting to changing conditions, on successfully managing through the uncertainty that has become a way of life for our industry and now perhaps for the global economy, and on seizing the many opportunities ahead. With that, I'll turn it over to Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO, SVP & CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Jeff. Good morning, everyone. I want to start by punctuating a few items that Jeff mentioned. Pfizer maintains a strong financial position despite the challenging macro economic environment. We have a strong balance sheet and excellent liquidity that provides us with financial flexibility. We have approximately $26 billion in cash and short-term investments and we continue to expect to generate $17 billion to $18 billion of cash flow from operations in 2008. Our long-term debt is rated high quality and investment grade. We are rated AAA by S&P and AA1 from Moody's. We have and will continue to take a conservative approach to our investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high quality, highly liquid, well diversified investment grade available for sale debt securities. As a result, the credit markets remain open to us and we continue to have ample liquidity. Now onto our third quarter results. The charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast and will help facilitate the discussion of our third quarter 2008 results.

Now let me get to our financials. Reported revenues for the third quarter of 2008 were $12 billion, consistent with year-ago quarter. This included the positive impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately $620 million or 5%, and the solid performance of many key products. This was offset by the negative impact of the loss of US exclusivity for Zyrtec and Camptosar, whose revenues decreased year over year by $428 million and $121 million respectively, and an adjustment of $217 million for prior year product returns. This adjustment was the result of the detailed review that we recently initiated addressing the actual returns experienced for various products. We determined that the length of time from when a product was sold to when a return is made was longer than had been assumed. Consequently, we increased our returns accruals and recorded the full amount again current period revenues and income, although essentially all of the adjustment relates back several years.

Third quarter 2008 reported net income was $2.3 billion compared with $761 million in the year-ago quarter and reported diluted EPS increased to $0.34 versus $0.11 in the prior year quarter, primarily driven by the after-tax charges of $2.1 billion related to the decision to exit Exubera in the year-ago quarter, partially offset by after-tax charges in the current quarter of approximately $640 million associated with our agreements in principle to resolve certain litigation involving NSAID pain medicines and $152 million associated with the previously mentioned returns adjustment. Adjusted revenues were $12.2 billion, an increase of 2% year over year, driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange and to a lesser extent the growth of many key products. These offset the impact of the loss of US exclusivity of Norvasc, Zyrtec, and Camptosar.

Adjusted income increased 5% to $4.2 billion year over year and adjusted diluted EPS increased 7% to $0.62, which included the favorable impact of savings associated with cost reduction initiatives and foreign exchange. These are partially offset by a decrease in other income primarily due to decreased net interest income. Both reported and adjusted diluted EPS in the third quarter were favorably impacted by the full benefit of our $10 billion share repurchase in 2007. Several significant items impacted our reported pretax results this quarter by approximately $2 billion, including charges of approximately $900 million associated with the aforementioned agreements in principle to resolve certain NSAID litigation, $338 million for restructuring, $378 million for implementation costs, and $217 million associated with the previously mentioned returns adjustment.

Now I'd like to provide more details regarding our third quarter adjusted income components. Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 14.5% versus 15.1% in the prior year quarter, driven by the benefits of our ongoing cost reduction initiatives, which were partially offset by a less favorable geographic mix. Adjusted SI&A expenses were $3.4 billion, a decrease of 6% year over year, driven by ongoing cost reduction initiatives which were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. Adjusted R&D expenses were $1.8 billion, an increase of 2% year over year. R&D expenses included increased spending on a larger number of higher cost Phase III clinical trials and increased spending in our biotechnology and bioinnovation center. These were partially offset by savings from our cost reduction initiatives. Higher clinical trial costs were primarily due to the progress we have made on our Phase III pipeline, which has increased from 16 to 25 programs over the last six months.

Our effective tax rate on adjusted income for the quarter was 22.3% versus 21.7% in the year-ago quarter. For the first nine months of 2008, adjusted revenues increased 2% to $36 billion year over year, driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange of approximately $2 billion or 6%, and to a lesser extent the solid performance of many key products. This was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the loss of US exclusivity of Norvasc, Zyrtec, and Camptosar, whose collective revenues decreased approximately $2.1 billion versus the prior year period.

Year-to-date adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 15.5% compared with 15.3% in the prior year period. The adjusted SI&A expenses decreased 1% versus the prior year period. Year-to-date adjusted R&D expenses decreased 2% versus the prior year period. The effective tax rate on adjusted income for the first nine months of 2008 was 21.4% versus 21.8% in the prior year period.

We posted year-to-date adjusted income $12 billion, an increase of 2% compared with the prior year period and adjusted diluted EPS of $1.77, an increase of 5%, which were positively impacted by savings associated with our ongoing cost reduction initiatives and foreign exchange. These were primarily offset by the aforementioned decrease in net interest income. In addition, the prior period's adjusted results included the up-front payment in 2007 to Bristol-Myers Squibb.

As I previously mentioned in the third quarter, foreign exchange increased revenues by approximately $620 million or 5%. While our cost reduction initiatives continued to have a positive impact on our adjusted total costs this quarter, foreign exchange unfavorably impacted these costs by approximately $240 million or 3% compared with the prior year quarter. Excluding foreign exchange, adjusted total cost decreased operationally by approximately $460 million or 6% year over year. The net effect of foreign exchange on our adjusted diluted EPS during the third quarter as compared with the year-ago quarter was a positive impact of $0.05.

We continue to make excellent progress on our cost reduction efforts. Total cost in the third quarter declined by about $460 million, excluding foreign exchange, compared with the year-ago quarter. It's important to note that we continue to achieve these absolute reductions even after absorbing inflation and reinvesting in the business. Our cost reductions in the third quarter were realized more quickly than we had originally anticipated. We now expect to achieve a total adjusted cost reduction of at least $2 billion versus our previous expectation of at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion on a constant currency basis for 2008 compared with 2006.

Our cost reduction initiatives continue to span essentially all divisions, functions, markets, and sites across Pfizer. Broad categories of activity include manufacturing and research side exits, outsourcing, and targeted workforce reductions. We reduced our global network of manufacturing plants from 78 four years ago to 51 currently. By the end of 2009, we expect to further reduce this global network to 43. Of the six R&D sites that have been identified for closure, we have closed two of the sites, ceased R&D operations at three, and significantly scaled back operations in the remaining site. In addition, we have a wide array of outsourcing opportunities in various stages of implementation. Manufacturing, logistics, finance, facilities, legal and IT are among the functions contributing to the financial and operational benefits of the strategy. Finally, we are continuing to size our workforce level with current market dynamics. Since January of 2007, our workforce level has decreased by approximately 14,600 to 83,400 at the end of the third quarter.

Now I'd like to provide some select product results. Lipitor revenues decreased 1% year over year to approximately $3.1 billion, including the positive impact of foreign exchange which increased revenues by approximately $130 million, up 4%. Year over year, Lipitor revenues in the US decreased 13% and revenues from international markets increased 16%. Lyrica continued to deliver strong performance with revenues of $675 million, an increase of 45% year over year. Sutent, our treatment for advanced kidney cancer and gastrointestinal stomal tumors, posted revenues of $226 million, an increase of 49% compared with the year-ago quarter, and Viagra revenues increased 13% to $509 million. Chantix revenues decreased 24% year over year to $182 million. Chantix results in the US continue to be negatively impacted by label changes. As a result, the third quarter US revenues of $96 million decreased 49% compared with the year-ago quarter. However, Chantix continued to perform well outside the US. Chantix revenues from international markets grew 60% year over year to $86 million. As expected, revenues from products that recently lost US exclusivity declined year over year, with Norvasc declining 12% to $562 million, Camptosar declining 50% to $122 million, and there were no sales for Zyrtec this quarter compared with $428 million in the year-ago quarter.

Based on our year-to-date performance and outlook for the remainder of 2008, we are increasing the lower end of our revenue guidance range. We now expect 2008 revenue to be between $48 billion and $49 billion compared with our previous expectation of $47 billion to $49 billion. In addition, we are tightening the range of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance and now expect the adjusted diluted EPS range to be from $2.36 to $2.41 compared with the previous range of $2.35 to $2.45. In addition, we have tightened our adjusted SI&A expenses guidance range to $14.4 billion to $14.7 billion from $14.4 billion to $14.9 billion. Finally as I previously mentioned, we now expect to achieve at least $2 billion in absolute adjusted total cost reductions versus 2006 on a constant currency basis, compared with our previous expectation of at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion.

So to summarize the key takeaways, we have increased the lower end of our '08 revenue and adjusted EPS diluted guidance ranges. We continue to see steady growth from several key products including Lyrica, Celebrex, Viagra, Sutent, Xalatan, Zyvox, and Geodon. We're pleased with the solid results we delivered this quarter, including achieving our absolute adjusted total cost reduction target for 2008 in the third quarter, and finally, our EPS growth continues to outpace our revenue growth. And now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks for the review, Frank. And at this point, if we could pause -- operator, if you could please poll for questions. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Sir, our first question comes from Mr. David Risinger of Merrill Lynch. Please proceed with your question.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks very much. I have two questions. The first is related to Lipitor. On the Lipitor sales, were sales impacted in 2008 or in 2007 by stocking? It seems like the reported sales performance in the US was a little weaker than what underlying demand would imply. The other question on Lipitor is that -- is related to the outlook. Prescriptions have been stabilizing sequentially recently. Could you comment on the outlook? And then the final question is for Frank. Frank, at your analyst meeting in March you had projected a mid-30s to a high 30s operating margin in 2012. I think some investors have wondered how such a post expiry margin is possible without big blockbuster brands, but it seems like you're pretty confident because you're assuming that the organization will be downsized. Could you just talk about your level of confidence and your visibility for that level of operating margin? Thank you.

CHUCK TRIANO: Okay. Good morning, Dave. I'm going to, obviously, ask Ian to address the first two questions on Lipitor.

IAN READ, PRESIDENT - WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS, PFIZER INC.: Dave, so on inventory there was no impact in the third quarter for inventory movements on Lipitor and a very small impact on the year-to-date, so nothing material from inventories affecting Lipitor's performance. And on our sequential performance, I think it's a reflection of the way we are focusing the field force -- our access programs are focused on introducing the switches, and I expect us to continue to do what we are doing, fighting for every script in the marketplace.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And then, Dave, on the question for me, what I have said is operating margins in the mid to high 30s going forward, so basically what you said. In terms of getting there, it's really a combination of things. One is the items Jeff mentioned relative to creating new sources of revenue. So maximizing our patent protected portfolio, establishing opportunities for our established products unit, seeking opportunities in emerging markets, looking at adjacent space as well as business development and advancing our internal pipeline. So it's a combination of creating new sources of revenue, combined with continuing to be more efficient, more productive and executing on the cost reduction initiatives that we talked about. So it's really a two pronged approach that gets us to the mid to high 30s on the operating margins.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Next question?

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. And our next question comes from Roopesh Patel of UBS. Please proceed with your question.

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. I have a couple of questions. First for Jeff, I'm wondering if you could please comment on the M&A outlook for Pfizer in light of what's occurred in the stock market in the past couple of months -- specifically, do you believe that acquisition opportunities have increased in the context of current valuation? And related to that, has your thinking on M&A for Pfizer changed over these last couple of months? If so, how? And then separately for Frank, FX related question. If I look to year-to-date adjusted EPS growth for Pfizer, it's been up 2%. The year-to-date benefit from FX for EPS has been plus 7%. If FX stays where it is today, can you give us a rough sense for what its impact would be on earnings in the next year or so? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Roopesh. Good morning. Let me start on business development. We have been clear that focused business development have continued to be an important enabler of all of our growth strategies, and we've said before that we are open to all opportunities and we never say never. I can tell you that under Bill Ringo's leadership, we engage in a very robust and ongoing process to constantly look at all opportunities. And in that process we are always taking account of the very dynamic landscape and the challenges and the opportunities that the environment may create. But while the environment changes, the fundamentals don't change and the considerations I have outlined previously still apply to any deal, large or small. First, it has to have strategic value. The price must be right. It must -- we must manage the disruption and risks to productivity. In short, it must create shareholder value and none of that has changed. As the environment changes, we continue to observe and monitor very carefully and review those opportunities on a constant basis. Frank, you want to talk about foreign exchange?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes. So let me cover this. Let me run a couple of numbers first and then I'll talk about going forward. So if you look at Q3, we benefited from foreign exchange on revenues by $620 million, on EPS by $0.05, which is part of the statistics that you quoted. If you look at foreign exchange going forward, if you look at our guidance, we said in our guidance, obviously -- other than those $2 billion, that everything is at current October foreign exchange rates. If you were to leave current foreign exchange rates and run now for the rest of the year, FX in Q4 would actually not help our EPS numbers. It would actually be detrimental to the numbers by a couple of cents which we included, factored into our guidance. Beyond Q4, if you look at 2009, we are not ready to comment on that, and the reason I say that is there's lots of volatility right now in foreign exchange and the various currencies. And so to try to call that number up today we think is an imprudent thing to do. We will, I will talk about that number on the January earnings call.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Mr. Tim Anderson of Sanford Bernstein. Please proceed with your question.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. A couple of questions. Can you talk about Lipitor formulary positioning in Medicare and commercial plans going into '09? Wondering how much slippage in Tier 2 coverage you anticipate, and if your impression is that all the branded cholesterol products would be in a similar situation. Schering had their call this morning -- they said they see broad based formulary tightening across all cholesterol drugs, and I'm wondering if you share that view. Second question is on Sutent. In the US the sales have been flat for several quarters. Internationally they continue to grow well, but I'm wondering if at some point in the not so distant future if international will similarly cap out and flatten out like the US has done in the absence of new indications?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Thank you, Tim. Ian, can you take both those questions?

IAN READ: Lipitor access -- we enjoy it -- we worked hard to get very positive access on Lipitor. I think it's in the mid-70s, to close to 80% on across our book of business. We have actually seen this year 75 formulary changes that have either improved Lipitor or put restrictions on Vytorin over the year. So I maintain similar types of access in '09 on Tier 2. But Tier 2 is harder than it used to be in the sense that generic competition does tend to drive against Tier 2 via their marketing practices with physicians. So while Tier 2 is valuable, it's not as valuable as it was two to three years ago. On Sutent, we have seen, as you say -- we saw growth in US sales this quarter. We are focusing on the full cycle of -- we are focusing on the effective dose and we will expect to continue to see growth. We do have substantial shares in renal cell, above 60% in most countries and in the international arena, the population base is far larger than the US and uptake is somewhat slower, so we expect to see continued growth internationally on Sutent prior to the new indications.

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks. Tim, I thought maybe Martin could elaborate on the new indications. Go ahead, Martin.

MARTIN MACKAY, SVP AND PRESIDENT OF PFIZER GLOBAL R&D, PFIZER INC.: Yes, Tim just briefly in terms of the new indications, I think you know in Phase 3 for colorectal cancer, lung cancer, and breast, which are the big three following close behind for the renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stomal tumor, and then coming up shortly behind that in hepatocellular carcinoma and hormone refractory prostate cancer, so we have several new indications which are following onto the two that are currently on the market.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Martin. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Our next question comes from Mr. Chris Schott of JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks. Just two quick questions. First on the R&D side, as Pfizer gets more selective in the therapeutic categories that you're investing in, what becomes of those early stage asset -- these things that will look to be outlicensed or sold off? And then how do we think about that in the context of your longer-term R&D budget? Should we be looking at these moves as creating longer term reductions in overall R&D spend, or simply creating more funding to go after the last stage assets in your more core areas of focus like oncology? Can you talk about your US based cash flow in the cash quarter and your cash balances -- how much is currently based in the US, thoughts as relates to that on repatriation bills as we look into 2009, and given all the controversy this year, can you run through your commitment to the dividends as it currently stand? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Martin, you want to start on R&D?

MARTIN MACKAY: Yes, thank you, Chris. In terms of the question to the early stage assets, we are certainly looking at a number of things now where we would look to outlicense and partner some of these what we believe to be valuable assets, just not as valuable as others that are in our portfolio. And this will range from single assets to maybe groups of assets. You remember recently our spinoff of RaQualia in Japan, where we put some of those early stage assets into that company, and you'll see a number of things over the next period. In terms of the second part to your question, it's exactly right. We are making trade-offs across a very large portfolio now. We have a terrific R&D budget, and of course when you have a Phase III pipeline that's becoming so replete with a mixture of new chemical entities, product line extensions, license and development activity and pediatric indications, and a Phase II pipeline that's also very healthy, we are making choices both in terms of the disease areas that we work in and the assets we prosecute.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Martin. Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Let me hit the dividend item first and just say as we have said before, certain significant events aside, we expect to generate sufficient cash flow to fund the dividend, at least at current levels on a going forward basis. That's what we have said previously. That's obviously where we continue to be. On cash flow, third quarter operating cash flow will be in the 10-Q that we file later on. But the way I can answer this from a cash flow perspective is -- through the first half of the year, we generated almost $8.5 billion in cash flow from operations, about $8.3 billion, and we reiterated our guidance on operating cash flow this quarter for the year, which is $17 billion to $18 billion, which is up from the previous year from 2007 to about $13.5 billion. In terms of breaking that out by country, we don't break out cash flow by country. We don't think that's a prudent thing to do, but those are the overall numbers.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Frank. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Steve Scala of Cowen. Please proceed with your question.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you, I have two questions. First, has Pfizer received an inquiry from the FTC regarding the Lipitor patent litigation settlement? If so, what are the issues and when -- or where does this investigation stand? And I'm also curious as to why you haven't, to my knowledge, announced the status of any review as other companies have when they receive these inquiries -- unless, of course, you haven't received one, which would be, in my opinion, surprising. Secondly, on Dimebon, can you update us on enrollment in the current Phase III trial and do you plan to conduct a Dimebon plus Aricept combination trial as part of the Phase III program? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Steve, I'll let Amy talk about the Lipitor patent settlement and Martin will talk about Dimebon.

AMY SCHULMAN, SVP & GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC.: Hi, Steve, and as disclosed in our quarterly filings, the FTC review of the Lipitor patent settlement is occurring in the normal course, and we think it will read out on an expected timeline and there's nothing unusual about that. Martin?

MARTIN MACKAY: In terms of Dimebon, we are now moving full steam ahead for the Phase III study. As you know, Medivation conducted a very nice Phase II study in Alzheimer's patients which was positive and we are progressing with Phase III with full speed. We will have a number of plans for the Phase III including combinations with such drugs as Aricept. Essentially we will have a full safety program with a [epithanate] compound.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thank you, Martin. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. And our next question comes from John Boris of Citibank. Please proceed with your question.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESARCH (US): Thanks for taking the questions. Two part question. First part has to do with the adapting to scale initiatives -- if you do look forward to the 2011 to 2013 time period, a lot of your -- quite a few of your peers have already outlined cost saving initiatives going forward to attack that cliff. Your cliff is relatively substantial in that period, a little over $9 billion of US revenue exposed to exclusivity losses. When -- what is the timing for potentially initiating another adapting to scale initiative that could certainly potentially rightsize the organization for that cliff in the future?

And then secondly, Jeff, you mentioned about making the organization smaller and certainly the power of scale and have outlined six units and certainly you're riveted on increasing shareholder value. Can you elaborate on your thoughts of how you might be able to unleash some shareholder value from any of these six units through either a spin or a split-off? Is that any part of your consideration to improve growth of the organization -- long term sustainable growth of the organization by containing some of that risk in one of those units that you could split or spin? And then your thoughts of a combination of M&A possibly in the mix with that also? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, John. I'll let Frank address the first question and then I'll respond to your second question.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So the way I think about this is, first, we have made very nice progress this year on our cost reduction initiatives. So $1.7 billion achieved now cumulatively -- we had a target of $1.5 billion to $2 billion. We have now increased that to at least $2 billion, so think about that as at least another $300 million between now and the end of the year as we finish off those numbers. I think we're demonstrating good execution, positive track record relative to being able to improve our processes, take the cost out of the business efficiently. I think secondly, from our perspective, efficiency improvements, operational improvements, cost reductions is a continuous thing. It never ends. It's something that we do perpetually and that we will continue to do.

In terms of going forward -- and the way I think about this is we will have another earnings call in January. As we do on the January earnings calls, something we typically do as a normal course of business, we'll provide guidance on that call for 2009. As we give guidance on that call, we'll also include the various elements of our income statement and that will include levels of cost -- so guidance on cost of sales and some of the other line items on the income statement. So we'll provide information on this as we normally do on the January earnings call.

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Frank. And on your second question, John, I understand the question -- we are always looking at opportunities to increase shareholder value. These units are relentlessly focused on creating value and setting up businesses in which they can pursue revenue opportunities appropriate to their customers and establish cost structures that are appropriate to their businesses.

CHUCK TRIANO: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you, and our last question comes from Seamus Fernandez of Leerink Swann. Please proceed with your question.

CHUCK TRIANO: Seamus? Is he there?

OPERATOR: Yes, he is. Please proceed with your question, Mr. Fernandez.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Maybe we covered it.

CHUCK TRIANO: Operator, my understanding is there are no other questions in the queue, so I want to thank everybody for your time today. I know how busy everyone is and we look forward to talking to you again soon. Have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081104e4al001h8
  


 HD
 Q2  2008  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,828 words
   PD
23 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Please welcome Chuck Triano, Head of Investor Relations.

CHUCK TRIANO, SVP, IR, PFIZER: Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review our second-quarter 2008 performance. I'm here where Jeff Kindler, Chairman and CEO; Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, and other members of our senior management team. The financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at www.Pfizer.com in the Investor Presentations tab by clicking on the link, Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2008.

   TD
We know this is a busy day for many of you, and our conference call will last an hour, and we will end at noon. As we would like to hear from as many of you as we can in this time, we ask that you limit your questions to just one question please.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2007 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated July 23, 2008. These reports are available on our website at www.Pfizer.com in the Investors SEC Filing section.

I will now turn the call over to Jeff Kindler. Jeff?

JEFF KINDLER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER: Thanks, Chuck, and hello, everyone. I would like to welcome Chuck to Pfizer, along with Amy Schulman, our new General Counsel, who is here this morning and who joined us just last month. It is great to have you both onboard.

We are pleased with our second-quarter financial performance, especially at this time of great uncertainty in the world economy and capital markets and significant challenges in our industry. Pfizer continues to be on track to deliver the revenue and adjusted diluted EPS guidance that we set out for 2008.

Our pharmaceutical and animal health businesses grew at a healthy rate this quarter, and our cost reduction efforts remained solidly on track with our second-quarter adjusted total costs decreasing by $475 million compared to the year ago quarter, excluding foreign exchange.

In short, we are doing what we said we would do.

As you know, the US pharmaceutical market continues to be challenging given the regulatory environment, generic competition, payer pressures and an uncertain political environment. But despite this and despite the loss of US exclusivity of Norvasc, Zyrtec and Camptosar, which collectively decreased revenues by approximately $500 million during the quarter, our US revenues in the quarter nevertheless declined by only 2% versus the previous year. Without these LOE products, our US pharmaceutical business actually increased by 10%.

In this tough US marketplace, we have six products outperforming the branded competition -- Chantix, Aricept, Lyrica, Spiriva, Rebif and Sutent. As well as four more mature in-line products successfully defending their positions against newer agents -- Viagra, Xalatan, Lipitor and Geodon.

Bottom-line, there is certainly more work to be done, but we're more than holding our own against the competition in a particularly challenging US environment.

Meanwhile, outside the United States, we have one of the strongest global footprints and broadest portfolios in the industry, now accounting for more than half of our total revenues. Revenues from international markets grew a solid 5% this quarter compared to last year, even before the benefit of foreign exchange.

Our primary growth strategy around the world is to refocus and optimize our patent protected portfolio of both marketed medicines and compounds in development. In that connection, the agreement we made with Ranbaxy this quarter brings substantially certainly that a generic version of Lipitor will not be introduced in the US for another nearly three and a half years. While the lipid-lowering market is one of the world's most challenging, Lipitor is holding its own as we continue to fight for market share and to press the essential message that Lipitor has no generic or branded equivalent.

Pfizer is far more than Lipitor, of course, and our year-to-date results show positive trends for a number of key medicines in our patent-protected portfolio. Lyrica is up 50% year-to-date with growth driven by strong efficacy in managing nerve pain associated with diabetes and shingles, as well as in managing fibromyalgia, which increasingly is being understood as a serious and debilitating disease.

Revenues for our cancer agent, Sutent, were up 62% year-to-date. Currently Sutent's international growth is outpacing its growth in the US where it has been available longer. That said, we are pursuing additional indications for Sutent and conducting Phase III trials for patients with breast, colorectal and lung cancer among others. Sutent represents our commitment to emerge quickly as a leader in fighting cancer.

To advance that goal, we created this quarter a dedicated global oncology business unit within our pharmaceutical segment led by Gary Nicholson, formerly the head of Lilly's US oncology business unit. This unit will serve as the single point of accountability for Pfizer's worldwide oncology business in keeping with our commitment to reorganize into more focused and agile business units.

Now, of course, we would all prefer to prevent cancer and heart disease than to have to treat them, and that is why smoking cessation is so important. Smoking is expected to be the largest preventable cause of death in this century with some estimates that the toll may be 1 billion people. There are few things that provide greater health benefits than quitting smoking. And our innovative smoking cessation aid, Chantix, is an effective option for those who want to quit.

In fact, we get letters day after day from patients who had given up all hope of quoting smoking until they used Chantix. Its global sales grew 3% this quarter compared with the same period a year ago. Strong international growth was largely offset by a 35% decline in US revenues, which was due mainly to labeling changes and to external reports about adverse events.

Let me be clear -- we believe the Chantix labeling appropriately reflects the medication's risks and benefits, and we will continue to encourage doctors and patients to have a robust dialogue about the dangers of smoking and appropriate treatment options.

Meanwhile, we're seeing strong performance among other important brands. So far this year Geodon is up 20%. Viagra is up 13%. Xalatan is up 12%, and Celebrex is also up 12%. In addition, we continue to pursue new opportunities for our in-line medicines. We recently launched Champix in Japan where we also earned approval for Sutent for certain types of cancer and submitted Lyrica for nerve pain after shingles. And in Europe last month we launched the product we licensed from Schwartz Pharma called fesoterodine to treat overactive bladder. Efforts like these expand the lifecycles of our in-line medicines, complementing our R&D work on new compounds.

In that connection, we also continue to make steady progress advancing one of the most robust pipelines in the industry. In our R&D labs, we are looking to significantly increase our return on invested capital by making smart and focused decisions, including where appropriate exiting certain areas of activity, and we're seeing progress in productivity. Since our last pipeline update in March, we had begun Phase III development of five new molecular entities and product line extensions. We now have 20 Phase III projects underway. A noteworthy example is CP-751871, a biologic discovered by Pfizer and proposed for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

We advanced apixaban, our development project with Bristol-Myers Squibb into a Phase III study for treatment of venous thromboembolism. In addition to line extensions to maximize the value of Geodon and Celebrex, we also added Thelin, a once daily oral treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension which is already approved in Europe, Canada and Australia. It was acquired through our purchase of Encysive.

In addition, we expect seven Phase III oncology studies in 2008 with two already open and enrolling, reflecting Pfizer's commitment to oncology which currently counts for 22% of our R&D budget.

One of the milestones this quarter was a license agreement with AVANT for CDX-110, a Phase II oncology vaccine candidate for the treatment of brain cancer. We continue to move ahead on our goal of 15 to 20 Phase III starts this year and next with the objective of having 24 to 28 compounds in Phase III by the end of next year. We are on track to meet these goals.

An important research initiative this quarter was the establishment of the Pfizer Regenerative Medicine Unit, which will provide us with new targets, new tools and ultimately new therapies across a number of disease areas including Alzheimer's disease, cancer and other debilitating disorders.

Now just as our R&D work is shaping Pfizer's future, changes in our business strategy are shaping the future as well. The fast growth of Pfizer's business outside the United States points to significant potential in emerging markets where we have set a goal of outpacing market growth, which is expected to be 11% per year between now and 2012, the year after Lipitor loses exclusivity.

In addition by then, we aim to be the number one pharmaceutical company by revenues in six of our seven top priority emerging markets. Namely Brazil, China, Mexico, Russia, South Korea and Turkey. The competitive advantages of our broad portfolio of established products and our strong global footprint lie at the heart of our strategy to grow in emerging markets, many of which have more than half of their total sales being driven by established products compared to about 12% in the United States.

To understand the potential of these markets for Pfizer, consider the fact that $80 billion in new revenues from increased use of established products is expected between now and 2012, and we currently have about a 4% share. There is an enormous opportunity here for us to take a greater share of this growth over the next three to five years.

Steady execution of all of this commercial, R&D and strategic work demonstrates that Pfizer's continuing to change and change fast. A new culture of innovation and continuous improvement is shaping a new, leaner and smarter Pfizer. Throughout the Company we have new, smaller, more accountable business units which have been given much more freedom to innovate.

Over the past two years, while building an outstanding management team, we have challenged colleagues to think differently, to work differently and to examine our business in new ways and from all angles but especially from that of the customer. We have shaped a new corporate culture that is cost-conscious where employers are encouraged to think and act like entrepreneurs. These efforts are supported by our financial strength, a competitive advantage that allows us to balance our strategic needs while meeting our financial commitments.

We have also kept our commitment to greater candor and transparency. Just this past quarter, we stood alone in reforming the way we finance continuing medical education in the United States to remove any appearance of conflict of interest. We've begun to build a strong new presence in biotherapeutics; made progress in rebuilding our pipeline, particularly in the late stages; streamlined our manufacturing; attracted a new generation of leaders to Pfizer; and created the path forward for our future.

The hard work is far from over, and it will never truly be over. But in this quarter's results, we see some reflection of our hard work and one more important step in doing what we said we would do -- build a Pfizer that can and will succeed.

And now for the financial details, please welcome Frank D'Amelio.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO & SVP, PFIZER: Thank, Jeff. Good morning, everyone. The charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast and will help facilitate the discussion of our second-quarter 2008 results. Now let me get to our financials.

Today we reported revenues for the second quarter 2008 of $12.1 billion, a 9% increase year-over-year which reflects the positive impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately $800 million or 7% and solid performance of many key products, which more than offset the negative impact of revenue declines resulting from the loss of exclusivity in 2008 for Zyrtec whose revenues decreased $377 million and Camptosar whose revenues decreased $104 million.

Reported net income increased year-over-year by 119% to $2.8 billion in the second quarter, and reported diluted EPS of $0.41 increased to 128%. These increases were primarily driven by lower restructuring charges related to our cost reduction initiatives, as well as savings resulting from these initiatives; the positive impact of foreign exchange; and favorable income tax adjustments related to the sale of Esperion and favorable tax settlements, which were partially offset by increased in-process R&D expenses associated with the acquisitions of Serenex and Encysive Pharmaceuticals, which closed during the quarter, and the impact from the loss of US exclusivity for certain products.

We generated adjusted income of $3.7 billion in the second quarter, an increase of 26% year-over-year and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.55, an increase of 31% driven by the savings resulting from our cost reduction initiatives; the positive impact of foreign exchange; the nonrecurrence of the onetime '07 payment to Bristol-Myers Squibb in connection with our collaboration to develop and commercialize apixaban; and tax settlements, which more than offset the impact from the loss of US exclusivity for certain products. Both reported and adjusted diluted EPS in the second quarter were favorably impacted by the full-year benefit of our 10 billion share repurchase in 2007.

During the second quarter of 2008, we repurchased approximately $500 million or 26.4 million shares of our common stock. I would also like to point out that our debt level at the end of the second quarter decreased sequentially by approximately $400 million, notwithstanding our dividend payment, share repurchases and the funding of our operations.

We had several significant items included in our reported results this quarter. More detailed disclosures will be provided in our Form 10-Q filing with the SEC.

In the second quarter, we incurred $562 million in restructuring charges compared with $1 billion in the prior year quarter. This significant decrease was driven by greater restructuring charges associated with employee-related costs in the year ago quarter.

We also incurred $405 million of implementation costs compared with $317 million in the prior year quarter, primarily related to sites we exited or are in the process of exiting. These implementation amounts are reported in cost of sales, R&D, SI&A expenses and other income deductions and are detailed more fully in supplemental information accompanying the release.

Now I would like to provide more details regarding our second-quarter adjusted income components.

Adjusted revenues were $12.1 billion, an increase of 9% year-over-year. Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 16.9% versus 17% in the prior year quarter, notwithstanding less favorable geographic mix and the impact of foreign exchange. Excluding foreign exchange, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 16.1%. Adjusted SI&A expenses were $3.7 billion, a decrease of 1% year-over-year, reflecting a decrease in marketing expenses which more than offset the negative impact of foreign exchange. Adjusted R&D expenses were $1.9 billion, a decrease of 8% year-over-year due primarily to realized savings resulting from our cost reduction initiatives and the non-recurrence of the one-time payment to Bristol-Myers Squibb in '07 associated with our collaboration to develop and commercialize apixaban.

Our effective tax rate on adjusted income for the quarter was 20% versus 22.2% in the year ago quarter due to favorable tax settlements. Our EPS growth is outpacing our revenue growth, which clearly reflects positive leverage.

Now I would like to provide a mid-year update on our adjusted results. Revenues increased 2% to $24 billion in the first half of 2008 compared with the prior year period, driven by the solid performance of many key products. First-half revenues reflect the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately $1.4 billion or 6%, which was offset by the negative impact of the loss of US exclusivity of Norvasc in 2007 and Camptosar and Zyrtec in 2008, which collectively decreased revenues by $1.4 billion.

Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue for the first half was 16.1% compared with 15.4% in the prior year period, primarily due to less favorable geographic mix and the negative impact of foreign exchange. Excluding foreign exchange, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues for the first half of the year was 15.3%.

Adjusted SI&A expenses increased 1% in the first half compared with the prior year period, and adjusted R&D expenses decreased 4%. We posted adjusted income of $7.8 billion in the first half of 2008, an increase of 1% compared to prior year period, and adjusted diluted EPS of $1.15, an increase of 5%, reflecting the benefit of savings associated with our cost reduction initiatives; the positive impact of foreign exchange; the non-recurrence of the one-time '07 payment to Bristol-Myers Squibb; favorable income tax adjustments and our share repurchases in 2007, which were offset by the impact from the loss of US exclusivity for certain products.

As I previously mentioned, this quarter foreign exchange increased revenues by approximately $800 million or 7%. We continued to achieve cost reductions this quarter, and our ongoing cost reduction initiatives continue to have a positive impact on our results.

That said, foreign exchange continued to have an unfavorable impact on our cost and expenses this quarter. Overall foreign exchange unfavorably impacted adjusted total cost by approximately $440 million or 6% this quarter compared with the prior year quarter. Excluding foreign exchange, our adjusted total cost decreased operationally by approximately $475 million or 6% year-over-year.

The net effect of foreign exchange on our adjusted diluted EPS during the second quarter as compared with the year ago quarter was a positive impact of $0.04. This positive impact was not incremental to our EPS guidance since the guidance we provided in January of '08 and reiterated during the second quarter was given at current exchange rates.

We continue to make progress against our objective to reduce absolute adjusted total costs by at least 1.5 to $2 billion at the end of '08 compared with '06 on a constant currency basis. To date we have achieved a cumulative operational cost reduction of $1.2 billion. We expect to achieve much of the remaining reduction in the fourth quarter, which will favorably impact that quarter's adjusted diluted EPS.

I want to point out that we expect to achieve this reduction even after absorbing inflation, which adds approximately $1 billion to adjusted total cost annually and reinvesting in our business.

While our cost reduction initiatives will continue to reduce absolute costs for the balance of 2008, the timing of the realization of these reductions is also a function of spending patterns in both '06 and '08. The spending level in the fourth quarter of '06 was higher than usual due to establishing research collaborations with third parties and sales and marketing investments in international markets.

By comparison, quarterly spending patterns in '08 have been and are expected to be more consistent with historical norms. Because of the different spending levels between '06 and '08, much of the remainder of our absolute cost reduction target will be achieved in the fourth quarter of this year. Our cost reduction initiatives continue to span essentially all divisions, functions, markets and sites across Pfizer. Broad categories of activity include manufacturing and research side exits, outsourcing and targeted work force reductions such as our ongoing previously announced European field force reduction.

We reduced our global network of manufacturing plants from 78 four years ago to 54 currently. By the end of '09, we expect to further reduce this global network to 44. As part of this effort, we recently announced our decision to cease operations at our Terre Haute facility by the middle of '09.

We also recently announced the spinoff of our R&D laboratory in Nagoya, Japan. We are continuing to exit the three remaining R&D sites of the six that have been identified for closure.

Also, we have a wide array of outsourcing opportunities in various stages of implementation, manufacturing, logistics, finance, facilities, legal and IT are among the functions contributing to the financial and operational benefits of this strategy.

Finally, we are continuing to match our workforce level with the current market. Over the past 18 months, our workforce level has decreased by 13,500 to 84,500 as of June 29, '08 from 98,000 at the end of 2006. And, as a result of recent actions this month, our current level is approximately 84,100.

All key in-line and new product revenues increased in the second quarter compared with the year ago period. Lipitor revenues increased 9% year-over-year to approximately $3 billion, including the positive impact of foreign exchange which increased revenues by approximately $170 million or 6%. Year-over-year Lipitor revenues in the US increased 1%, and revenues from international markets increased 18%.

Lyrica continued to deliver strong performance with revenues of $614 million, an increase of 52% year-over-year. Sutent, our treatment for advanced kidney cancer and gastrointestinal stromal tumors, posted revenues of $211 million, an increase of 45% compared with the year ago quarter.

I want to point out that while Sutent revenues in the US declined 2% year-over-year during the second quarter, first-half US revenues increased 10% versus the prior year period.

Year-over-year Chantix revenues increased 3% to $207 million. As Jeff stated, Chantix's results reflect the negative impact resulting from updates to the US label to include additional safety information, as well as from certain external events.

a result, US revenues decreased 35% year-over-year to $109 million.

That said, Chantix continued to perform well outside the US. Chantix revenues from international markets grew 197% year-over-year to $98 million.

As we expected, revenues from products that recently lost US exclusivity declined year-over-year with Norvasc declining 2% to $627 million, Camptosar declining 43% to $137 million, and Zyrtec declining 98% to $8 million.

Today we are reaffirming full-year 2008 revenue and adjusted diluted EPS guidance. As a result of the significant unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on adjusted cost of sales in the first half of '08, we are tightening our guidance on the lower end of the range. We currently expect adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue to be between 15 and 15.5% compared with our previous expectation of 14.5% to 15.5%.

We continue to be on track to achieve the reduction in absolute adjusted total cost of at least 1.5 to $2 billion at the end of '08 compared with '06 on a constant currency basis. As I previously stated, we have achieved $1.2 billion of the targeted reduction to date. We expect the balance of this reduction to gain momentum throughout the second half of the year with much of the remaining savings to be realized in the fourth quarter to favorably impact that quarter's adjusted diluted EPS.

Finally, we are updating our guidance on our 2008 effective tax rate. We now expect the effective tax rate on adjusted income for the year to be between 21.5% to 22% versus our previous expectation of 22% to 22.5%.

So to summarize the key takeaways, we are reaffirming our '08 revenue and adjusted diluted EPS guidance. We continued to see steady growth in several key products, including Lyrica, Geodon, Viagra, Celebrex and Sutent. As we expected, this quarter's results were negatively impacted by the decline in revenues from the loss of US exclusivity of Zyrtec and Camptosar. We are continuing to execute and make progress, and our cost reduction initiatives are on track to achieve our adjusted total cost reduction target. To date we have achieved $1.2 billion in adjusted total cost reductions. We expect to realize the majority of the remaining cost reductions in the fourth quarter.

Finally, we're pleased with the solid results that we delivered in the second quarter, including the benefit of our cost reduction initiatives. Our EPS growth this quarter outpaced our revenue growth, demonstrating the benefit of these initiatives to our bottom-line.

And now I will turn it back over to Chuck.

CHUCK TRIANO: Thanks, Frank. And at this point if we could ask the operator to begin polling for questions, please.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). John Boris, Citigroup.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Largely financial-related questions. Free cash flow, Frank, in the first quarter and second quarter, can you just share what free cash flow was? The second part has to do with price and volume, what that contributed to growth. And then the third question just has to do with sequential borrowings. They went up by about $3 billion to $9 billion. Can you just share with us or provide a little color on the use of those funds?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure, John. So operating cash flow in Q1 was $3.3 billion. Q2 will be part of the Q that we file in a few weeks.

In terms of price, volume and foreign exchange for Q2, price was down 2%, volume was up 4% and the foreign exchange we got benefit of 7%, which was the $800 million that I alluded to in my comments.

And then on the third item, which was borrowing, let me just run the numbers. At the beginning of the year, we had about $13 billion in debt. At the end of last quarter, we had about $17 billion. At the end of this past quarter, we had about $16.5 billion and I'm rounding. That's about $400 million down quarter to quarter. And that $400 million decrease was while we purchased $500 million of our stock.

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Merrill Lynch.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: There is obviously a significant market opportunity for the JAK3 for rheumatoid arthritis, but there has been some investor noise about its toxicity profile. was hoping that you could walk us through the JAK3 side effects and tell us what to focus on at ACR in October?

And then separately, if you could just discuss Sutent's US trends in more detail?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Martin, do you want to take the first part of that?

MARTIN MACKAY, SVP & PRESIDENT, PFIZER GLOBAL R&D, PFIZER: Sure. Would be happy to. Thank you for the questions. As you correctly see, JAK3 continues very well in Phase II. We will report out at the ACR meeting later this year, and obviously we will report out on both efficacy and side effects.

Given the mechanism as we have discussed before, we know the side effects to look for in the clinical trials. We're monitoring those very, very carefully. Given those badly published in Phase IIa data that we published some time ago, we were really very pleased with the side effect profile of the compound and that continues.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay and the second question, Ian.

IAN READ, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS, PFIZER: Yes. So on Sutent's second quarter, so second quarter down 2%, first semester up 10%. I would like to point out in the US -- so I suppose your question was directed to the US -- that our share is 56% in RCC and 88% in second line for GIST. So we're not satisfied with a 56% share in the US, and we need to advance our share there by focusing on Sutent's efficacy and keeping patients on therapy at the appropriate dose throughout all treatment cycles.

One of the key programs we're going to use on that or data is the two-year survival data recently presented at the 2008 ASCO where our survival data represented the longest medium overall survival to date of any agent in first-line settings.

FRANK D'AMELIO: (multiple speakers) -- and then just overall Sutent sales globally for the quarter were up 45% year-over-year, and then outside the US internationally, they were up 80% year-over-year. So that is a product that is doing well in the US and continues to do very well outside of the US.

OPERATOR: Roopesh Patel, UBS.

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST, UBS: My question is on US Lipitor sales. I was wondering if you could help us reconcile the 20% sequential decline in US Lipitor sales versus the first quarter. With the 3% drop in prescriptions that have been reported over the same period, my understanding was that inventory levels were normal when exiting the first quarter. There have been no price increases over the course of the second quarter. So if you could just help us there.

And then separately, what impact do you expect the recent reporting of Vytorin's CEASE trial to have on the cholesterol market growth and on Lipitor?

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you. I will let Ian take both of those questions.

IAN READ: So we normally have fluctuations between first and second quarter difficult to reconcile those. So let's look at the first semester for Lipitor where sales growth was down 11%. Pricing was basically flat between price increase and rebates. And the net of market growth and share was down about 16%, and the differential between that and the 11% is driven partly by increased number of units per TRX and partly via a normalization of the inventory level at the end of '08.

Vis-a-vis the Vytorin trial, I think it is too early to tell the impact on market growth, and certainly what we're focusing on is Lipitor's positioning at getting the goal, the efficacy across the dosage rang range, our safety and our landmark trials.

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: In the spirit of greater candor and transparency, which I applaud, can you tell us the split of targets for absolute adjusted total cost savings in terms of US versus non-US? You gave us a target of 1.5 to $2 billion by the end of the year.

I was wondering also you mentioned -- you used the phrase at least in the press release, and I would love to know what the magnitude of upside might be to that in your optimistic case for this year.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. I'm sorry, I did not completely understand the second question. The upside of cost do you mean?

CATHERINE ARNOLD: Yes, yes, the target 1.5 to $2 billion in the press release, it says at least 1.5 to $2 billion can be achieved. So I'm wondering what the magnitude of upside might be for those targets.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, I will let Frank take both those questions.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, so let me do it this way. In the release we said we have achieved $1.2 billion to date. If you look at the rhythm in terms of what we have done there, it was $600 million in '07, $170 million in Q1 and then $465 million in Q2. We have not provided details on that relative to US, non-US. But know those savings and the target of 1.5 to 1 are global in nature. They reflect actions that are being taken both in the US and outside the US kind of point one.

In terms of the second question with the at least language, we're at 1.2. Our job is to do as much as we can relative to the range. So understand when we get to 1.5, we're not going to stop; we're going to deliver as much as we can to get as high into the range as we possibly can.

In terms of what is available above and beyond the range, my answer is we're at 1.2. We will get every dollar we possibly can, and we will get that by the end of the year.

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Can you talk about Pfizer's potential interest to get into the generics business beyond what you currently do with Greenstone? Glaxo today announced that they will sell branded generics in emerging markets, and Sanofi is trying to buy Zentiva, and there was talk that you guys were looking at Ranbaxy fairly recently.

And secondly, on Lyrica sales have been pretty flat in the US for the last three quarters, and recently new prescriptions look like they are actually trending down. And I'm wondering if you can address what might be going on in the US market specifically?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. I will take the first one and let Ian take the second one. As you know, the established product strategy is a very important one and important enough that we established -- pardon the pun -- a business unit specifically focused on that and led by Dave Simmons who has tremendous experience in those parts of the world where established products continue to retain brand equity and we can drive sales based on physician and patient preferences. And Norvasc this quarter actually is not a bad example of that, and we're experiencing goods sales even on a product like that that has lost exclusivity in a lot of markets.

The established opportunity, if you put aside products that are just going off patent and flipping from the patent protected to the established marketplace and just look at organic growth, just volume increases, it is an $80 billion opportunity by the time Lipitor goes off patent. We currently have a 4% share of that. We believe that we have a unique set of competitive advantages to increase that share and to exploit that market. And those include the breadth of our therapeutic portfolio and product portfolio, which is very important in those markets, and our geographic presence. You know we have been in these markets a very, very long time, and we have established relationships with key opinion leaders and the like. And we really think there are very, very few companies that are going to be able to compete the way we compete in those markets.

Those markets are more than just China. There is emerging markets in Latin America, Eastern Europe, Asia. But if you just look at Asia, and I'm talking about more than China, that is an opportunity that goes from $47 billion to $80 billion by 2012, and our current share is 4%, and we have a goal of increasing that share by the time Lipitor goes off-patent.

Just to take China as an example, we said in our March 5 meeting that we're going to increase our field force presence from 110 cities to 126 by the end of the year. We have already achieved that goal. So now we have raised the bar, and we're going to be in 137 cities by the end of the year.

So this is a tremendous opportunity for us. And to answer your specific question, we have been clear that all our strategies are going to be supplemented by appropriate business development. And we will look at opportunities for enhancing our ability to compete and when in the established markets in the emerging markets. We really think this is a big winner for us and a big opportunity, and we are already seeing early signs of success in the way that we focused on it.

The second question was about Lyrica progress, so I will turn that over to Ian.

IAN READ: Well, I just want to go back on the data. We did, in fact, grow in the quarter 52% with Lyrica. If I look at the script trends, I cannot really validate the data you gave. I can see sequential growth in TRXs quarter on quarter.

That being said, I acknowledge they are slower than they were post the fibromyalgia launch and that growth.

So the game plan for us really is to further grow leadership by being a treatment of choice in VPN and PHN general. And there is very low diagnosis treatment rates in those two conditions, and we do have a good marketshare already in about 30% in those conditions and are the treatment of choice. And in fibromyalgia we continue to develop that market. There is about 6 million patients that suffer from fibromyalgia. Only 22% are diagnosed, and that requires market development. So optimistic about the performance going forward.

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, JPMorgan.

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just a couple of quick questions. First, on Lyrica, what are your expectations on any potential label change for the drug given the recent FDA panel on the epilepsy class in general?

On Chantix I was just kind of surprised, happy to see the international sales kind of hanging in there as much as they had given what has happened in the US? Can you talk a little bit about the feedback you're getting on the drug ex-US? Are you expecting a delayed reaction to some of the safety concerns, or just generally speaking are these markets less sensitive to that type of news than we see in the US?

And then maybe just finally generally speaking, we have seen across the industry a number of therapeutic categories in the US with weaker than expected volume growth this year. As with higher copays and a weak economy, I'm just interested in your thoughts in general. Are we seeing more economic sensitivity to the prescription pharma market in the US than maybe historically?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. I'm going to give you all three of those.

IAN READ: Okay. So Lyrica, we're pleased with our recommendation from the advisory committee the FDA, and we will await the final decision from the FDA. But it was a pretty strong positive vote from the advisory committee vis-a-vis not putting a blackbox on. Secondly, I think your discussion was Chantix vis-a-vis --

CHRIS SCHOTT: International, the difference between international and -- (multiple speakers)

IAN READ: Yes, in international you have got to realize that there are two factors going in international. Number one, the label changes have not been anywhere near as dramatic as in the US with the EMEA taking a different view than perhaps the FDA took.

A rollout that is slower internationally as market penetration is not as fast when you launch internationally. So you will see sort of a more consistent growth pattern internationally. So I think those are the two differentiations in the international vis-a-vis the US on Chantix.

And then the third one was --

CHRIS SCHOTT: The effect of the US economy given copays and --

IAN READ: Yes, I think we are seeing a -- you are seeing a slow-up in the US market growth rate. I think the IMS came out with a report on that and undoubtedly is affected by the way managed care has shifted higher copays. It is I think a factor. There was a report that came out from Kaiser which indicates that scripts are not being filled or pills are being split due to the economic pressures that are being caused by these copays.

JEFF KINDLER: One thing I would just add to that is that one of the trends that is starting to emerge, which is a very positive one is that employers, large companies, that are concerned about health care costs and the long-term health of their employees are beginning to see the value of reducing and even in some cases eliminating copays in order to improve adherents to medicines and actually increase the adoption of medicines.

IAN READ: And by example of that is the success we have had in working with employees to cover Chantix. Where we have offered about -- we have added about 1.6 million lives on Chantix coverage due to employees' focus on overall health care.

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Lehman Brothers.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: A couple of strategic questions, Jeff, directed to you and then one for Martin.

I believe late last year or earlier this year you had added Bill Ringo to strategy and/or BD. I'm curious if strategy and BD has actually changed its direction, and if you can share with us if, in fact, it has, if you can share with us maybe directionally where that may be heading?

And second, you ticked off a number of or a list of -- I'm going to say completed items that you and your management team have done over the past couple of years, in particular the issues around cost reduction, the issues of trying to force more into Phase III, etc. I'm curious where you may be turning your focus or your attention today or perhaps over the next six to 12 months? And that is to say, is that an increasing opportunity internationally? Is that the direction?

And then for Martin, there has been reference to obviously JAK3 kinase inhibitors. There has been a reference to apixaban. Some excitement on those couple of products. But if, in fact, Pfizer is to have 24 to 28 Phase III products by the end of 2009, could you actually name two or three others that again you tend to be most excited about in the portfolio?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Actually the two questions you posed to me I think are quite related. We did bring in Bill Ringo. He has now been here I think a couple of months at most, and he is already making a big difference because he has vast experience in our industry, not just at Lilly but at biotech and venture capital, and he is an incredibly well-respected and well-known figure in the biopharmaceutical industry in general. And he is bringing a sharper focus on execution of the strategies.

And the broader point about strategies that you raised, we have laid out I think quite clearly our growth strategies, and we have also said that all of them are going to be augmented and as appropriate supplemented by business development. And what we're focused on now is execution. I think we have seen evidence in this quarter that we are beginning to really see some results from a sharp focus on the execution of our strategies by the foundational changes that we have made over the last couple of years in terms of leadership and structure, and the rest of it I think as you said a strong foundation that we are now beginning to capitalize on. And, as you know, those strategies range from advancing the pipeline which you mentioned. We have talked about international and established and emerging markets. We have talked about getting more out of our in-line portfolio, and all of these things will continue to be supplemented by business development, and Bill is off to a great start assessing the opportunities and helping us move forward, and he is a great addition to our team. Beyond that position that he holds, but also by virtue of his real terrific experience and knowledge of our industry.

And I will turn it over to Martin for the other question that Tony asked.

MARTIN MACKAY: Thank you, Tony. Clearly you mentioned the JAK3 inhibitor and apixaban which we are very excited about. I would name another couple I will be presenting data on shortly that we have equal excitement about. The IGF-1R antibody for non-small cell lung cancer carcinoma just went into Phase III. We are ahead in this game of this particular mechanism in antibody, and we're very pleased with the results we're seeing.

Another one that we've published recently and will give further publications on later in the year is trastuzumab, which is the NGF antibody that was discovered at Rinat, part of the Rinat acquisition in pain. And we described our results at [ULAR] around six weeks ago and again will be showing more results and be looking to push that into Phase III in a very short timeframe. There is some other NC Phase II that we're very pleased about, the Sulopenem antibacterial, and clearly we continue to work on the DPP-4 mechanism.

Just one other area I would mention, though, and that goes to our product enhancements, which you will remember I spoke about as our golden assets. If I think about our oncology pipeline alone, think about the work we're doing in Sutent, we are already in Phase III with breast, lung and colorectal, and we will be following up very shortly into Phase III with a patocellular carcinoma and hormone refractory prostate cancer, and these results continue unabated.

With sunitinib we have Phase II studies in renal cell carcinoma and others. So really just to wrap up, Tony, we have a very exciting Phase II/Phase III pipeline emerging.

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen & Co.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: Where does the Lipitor patent litigation settlement with Ranbaxy stand relative to FTC review? It would seem that the FTC might be interested in a settlement given that the amorphous form patent does not appear applicable to the form that is commercialized, and there might be no apparent offsetting benefit to US consumers. So how confident are you on this settlement?

JEFF KINDLER: Steve, as you know, we have a long tradition here of great general counsels protecting our intellectual property, a record that I know Amy is going to maintain, so I will let Amy respond to that question.

AMY SCHULMAN, SVP & GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER: Thanks, Steve. I think that we're comfortable with the terms of the Lipitor settlement, and we don't expect any problems.

JEFF KINDLER: Specifically we're very comfortable that the FTC will not have an issue.

OPERATOR: Barbara Ryan, Deutsche Bank.

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I had a question about emerging markets, but I think you have gone through a lot of that. But maybe also just following along with that, it seems as though there has been a lot of work necessary to be done in the organization to restructure the organization to change the culture to bring in people. And is it fair to look at this in sort of a step function approach over a continuum looking out towards the Lipitor patent expiration?

And some of the things that you have talked about having accomplished, it seems as though a lot of those things are well in motion. You have brought in your new team. Would it be appropriate given that we would be -- we should be looking for the next step to be a lot more business development driven to bolt-on to the kinds of changes that have already been put in place that maybe improved the foundation from which you are working?

JEFF KINDLER: Well, let me try to answer it this way. I think as you point out, we have made a lot of progress in establishing a very strong foundation for success. I'm extremely pleased with how much progress we have made in that regard in a very short period of time. That work is never over, but to your point we're in a very good position now in terms of our leadership team, our culture, our organization. We will always be continuing to improve all that, but we're moving forward and we are executing. We outlined our five growth strategies. We have outlined our cost approach, and we are all about executing against those strategies, and, as I said before, where appropriate supplementing them with business development.

OPERATOR: Bert Hazlett, BMO Capital Markets.

BERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: My question is actually on trastuzumab, the '08 product that you showed data on at ULAR and for the Alzheimer's compound. Regarding trastuzumab I think it was in IV dosing and it was every eight weeks. Is that what you anticipate going forward with in Phase III, or is there a subQ dose in the works?

And then regarding the Alzheimer's program and the I-CAT data coming up, you have Phase II data being presented for your RAGE antagonist and some Phase I data for the anti-amyloid monoclonal. How rapidly can you move these forward, and can you just top to general enthusiasm about those programs?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Thanks for the question. Martin?

MARTIN MACKAY: Yes, happy to do that. Certainly the eight weeks dosing was very successful in the data that we looked at, and we will be pushing that into Phase III. We will obviously be looking at other formulations that helped physicians and patients also. So that is very much on the cards.

Clearly it was very important to get the positive proof of concept with this mechanism and also the good data that we showed. That opens up several possibilities for this antibody now. Not only in '08 actually but we are also extending our studies in terms of looking at other pain indications. And as you can probably tell, I'm particularly excited about this one.

In terms of the Alzheimer's approaches, again we have built up quite a nice portfolio, albeit early. You mentioned two in particular, the amyloid antibody and the RAGE program, and again we're very excited about both of those.

They are early, though, and this is a tough area to work in. We certainly will push these through. You mentioned specifically how can we push them through fast? As I think everyone knows, we brought Briggs Morrison into the back end of last year to run our Clinical Development Group, and he has just had a laser focus on accelerating all our late stage programs and has had actually terrific success so far. And certainly the Alzheimer's approaches are very much in his mind.

OPERATOR: James Kelly, Goldman Sachs.

JAMES KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just have a couple more to follow-up. First, on Lipitor, I know a lot of different questions came out on Lipitor, but I think this is the first quarter that Lipitor international sales have exceeded the US sales. And I'm interested just if there is anymore color about what the mix is of those revenues between the more protected versus the less protected markets and just how we should think about the relative size of those pieces growing versus where there might be some patent risk over the coming years there?

Secondly, as we watched the Chantix prescriptions end up with pressure having to do, of course, primarily with the questions that have come out around safety, but is there also something happening here where the number of patients that can be penetrated and take the drug, I think at one point when it was at its peak, something like 4% or 5% of smokers were on it. So what does the portion of the market that actually is willing to quit, because once you have taken it for whatever it might be, three or six months, you would tend to lose the successful patients. Of course, this is a good thing for public health, but does impact scripts.

And then lastly, alliance revenues, very strong line item, and if you can give -- but has a lot of pieces in it. Could you give any particular granularity around some of the pieces that are doing particularly well, or does it need a little extra focus?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Let me start. I think Frank is going to give you some numbers on the Lipitor piece, and then Ian will give some commentary on that. But I will address your Chantix questions and then look to the alliance revenue I think both Frank and Ian will have some thoughts to say. So go ahead, Frank.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on the Lipitor revenues, let me just run the numbers. And what I will do is make the point you made, but I will do it with numbers and convert it to percentages.

So for the quarter Lipitor revenues were about $3 billion, $2,976,000,000. They were up 9% from the prior year quarter of 2719.

Now to your point of that $3 billion, $1.4 billion was in the US and I'm rounding. $1.6 billion was outside the US, which resulted in a percentage mix of 47% in the US, 53% outside the US, which is the basis of the question. Ian, just wanted to frame the numbers.

IAN READ: Yes, so we're seeing operational growth outside of the US, and I don't have the exact numbers. But I mean we see growth in Asia, we see it in Latin America, and we're seeing it in Europe. And it is this -- especially in Europe, it is that we're further past the (inaudible) entry, and we're focusing on the high-risk patients, the high doses, and we're driving operational growth, which is where our strategy is both in the US and globally. So it is good to see that working internationally.

Vis-a-vis Chantix, it is the number one cause of preventable death, and this medicine is highly efficacious. And just looking at the US specifically, and I'm taking these numbers from memory, I think we identified 54 million smokers who were in the pool to quit, of which there was a segment which we would call immature, not yet ready to quit, and about 24 million that were either motivated or could be motivated to quit. And we have treated I think globally something like 5 million. So clearly there is a huge reservoir of patients that need to quit, and there are social pressures and educational pressures making them aware of the need to quit.

So I'm not particularly concerned about exhausting the supply of available patients as yet. The real key is motivating them to get to see a physician.

JAMES KELLY: Very good. Frank is going to comment on alliance revenues.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, and then on alliance revenues, I will just just run the numbers again, and then I will answer the question.

So for the quarter, alliance revenues were up about 44%. It was 563 versus about 393 Q2 '08, Q2 '07. Year-to-date it is up about 32, 33%. Call it 1 billion 50 over 790 year over year. If you look at what is driving some of the positives there, Spiriva and Aricept are really two of the products that are driving what is going on relative to the rhythm of the numbers.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. And Ian, did you want to highlight any of the particular alliance products, or I guess Frank covered it.

Okay. We have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: So just a couple of quick questions both for actually Martin Mackay. Martin, can you just give us an update on the timing of the UPLIFT study for Spiriva and when you expect that to report out?

And then separately on the anti-NGF antibody, were the Phase II studies here prospectively designed specifically for the pain signal that you saw? And if not, how do you plan to address this before you move into Phase III?

MARTIN MACKAY: In terms of Spiriva UPLIFT, the data will be shown at EHS in October later this year. And in terms of the NGF antibody, yes, it was prospectively designed for the pain. We saw obviously we have Phase I data and Phase II data to look at in that respect, and that will continue in terms of the Phase III studies. And, as I mentioned earlier, we are also now looking at other pain indications for this antibody.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Thank you, Martin, and thank you, everyone, for taking time out of what I know is a busy day for all of you. Thanks very much, and have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | gdeme : Dementia | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | gment : Mental Disorders | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080802e47n000i7
  


 HD
 Q1  2008  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,064 words
   PD
17 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Now we have Amal Naj, Head of Investor Development. You may now begin.

   TD
AMAL NAJ, VP - INVESTOR DEVELOPMENT & STRATEGY, PFIZER, INC.: Good morning, and thank you for joining us today to review our first quarter 2008 performance. I'm here with Jeff Kindler, Chairman and CEO; Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer; Ian Read, head of our worldwide pharmaceutical operations; Martin Mackay, head of our worldwide research and development; and David Reed, acting general council. We'll start this morning with a review of our results and the financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page at www.pfizer.com, in the investor presentations tab by clicking on the link, Quarterly Corporate Performance - First Quarter 2008. Our conference call will last an hour and we will end at 11 a.m. We would like to hear from as many of you as we can in this time, so we ask you to limit yourself to just one question. Time permitting, we'll come back to you for any additional questions.

Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could materially vary from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2007 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. Also the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliations of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated April 17, 2008. These reports are available on our website at www.pfizer.com in the investor's-SEC filings section.

I will now turn the call over to Jeff Kindler. Jeff?

JEFF KINDLER, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER, INC.: Thanks, Amal. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Before Frank reviews the numbers I'd like to make a few brief comments. The first quarter reflects a business reality that we highlighted in January. Our quarterly results may vary depending upon the seasonality of revenues and spending, as well as the timing of the loss of U.S. exclusivity and patent expiration of certain products, among other things. Due to the loss of U.S. exclusivity of two major products, the comparison of our 2008 quarterly results to 2007 is difficult this quarter. We lost U.S. exclusivity for Norvasc in late March 2007 and we lost U.S. exclusivity for Zyrtec in late January 2008 and stopped selling that product at that time. Together the revenues from these products declined by approximately $900 million in the quarter. Further, we also lost U.S. exclusivity of Camptosar in February 2008, but that impact of that LOE in this quarter was much less in comparison to the other two products.

Now, we all know that losses of exclusivity are a fact of life in the branded pharmaceutical business but nevertheless, there were a number of successes in other areas that partially offset the revenue decline associated with Norvasc and Zyrtec. For example, we continued to generate steady overall growth from our diversified portfolio of in-line products, including Lyrica, Viagra, Xalatan and Geodon. Additionally, Lipitor continues to be a strong global brand, demonstrating operational growth in China, Latin America, Spain, Canada and other international markets. Around the world, and particularly in the U.S., we continued to execute a comprehensive communication strategy to reinforce the extensive evidence supporting Lipitor's strong clinical profile.

And two of our new products, Sutent and Chantix, are continuing to perform well. Now, we've seen some impact in the U.S. from the Chantix label changes in January, but we're moving forward on many fronts, including aggressive educational and promotional efforts to drive growth as this innovative medicine continues to roll out around the world. We've now launched Chantix, or Champix, in 56 countries, including 20 countries within the past 12 months; countries like Italy, India and Korea. Launches in more than 20 additional countries are anticipated in the next 12 months. Further, we launched Sutent in 61 countries and are developing this important medicine for additional tumors, including breast, lung and colorectal cancer in late-stage clinical trials. I'm also very pleased that we recently approved -- received approval in Japan, which is the largest pharmaceutical market in the world outside the United States, for these two important medicines; Chantix in January and Sutent just yesterday. This was accomplished in part by the great collaboration between our R&D organization and the Japanese regulatory authorities and we look forward to more of these opportunities to bring products to market quickly in this important market.

Now beyond individual product performances, we continue to see operational growth in many of our major international markets. The significance of this trend goes well beyond just one quarter. As we said at our March 5th analyst meeting, we're pursuing strategies to take advantage of these opportunities and we believe our international business will be a significant source of growth for us in the coming years. And finally, we're continuing to see the benefits of productivity and efficiency improvements throughout our Company. We're on track to meet our goal of reducing our adjusted total costs by at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion by the end of this year, compared to 2006, on a constant currency basis. We are sharply focused on meeting our full-year guidance. With growth in many of our new and in-line products, strong performances in key markets, and aggressive cost reductions, we are reaffirming that guidance today.

At the same time, we continue to make fundamental changes in the operations, structure and culture of the business, by executing on the strategies we outlined at our March analyst meeting to build long-term value. Through the hard work and dedication of our colleagues, we have over the past year fixed many of the key elements of our business, and established a strong foundation with which to overcome our challenges and seize the many opportunities before us. And we're making substantial progress in other elements of our business. For example, we're pursuing new revenue opportunities across geographies, therapeutic areas and products, particularly in those areas that we've identified where we will invest to win. In one very important invest to win disease area, oncology, I'm pleased to tell you that we're now initiating a Phase III clinical trial of our IGF1R antibody for the treatment of non small cell lung cancer, an area with significant unmet medical need and large market potential.

In addition, we're active in business development and scanning the marketplace for opportunities while maintaining discipline in how we invest our shareholders' capital. During the quarter we announced an agreement to acquire Serenex, which will bring us proprietary compounds and science in oncology, and we recently acquired a controlling interest in Encysive, which fits very well with our strong cardiovascular franchise. Additionally, yesterday we announced an agreement with AVANT to license a Phase II therapeutic vaccine for a specific type of brain tumor. We're also applying innovative approaches and new business models across our business to both our existing assets and new products.

Now, one of the main objectives of these strategies, and something I would like to emphasize, is risk diversification. We all know that we are and we're going to remain in an industry with many risks, not only those inherent in drug development, but also those associated, for example, with things like safety and pricing. Our path forward, including the five strategies we outlined at our March 5th analyst meeting, is designed to mitigate and diversify that risk while maximizing revenues. Pfizer has a uniquely strong and broad global footprint, which we consider a powerful competitive advantage. We're a leader in most of the markets and many of the disease areas in which we compete. This allows us to execute on a range of strategies involving a portfolio of both patent protected and established products in developed, as well as emerging markets. Our goal over time is to take advantage of the many opportunities this presents and to become less dependent on any one in-line or pipeline product.

Let me give you an example. Unlocking the value of our established products with a new comprehensive focus and a business unit within our pharmaceutical segment that will be run like an entraprenurial venture, as we outlined on March 5, is another tangible step toward diversing our risk and maximizing our revenues. The established products market around the world, it's big, profitable, and growing at double-digit rates right now. It's expected to grow to over $500 billion by 2012. Two things are required to succeed and grow share in this market and we have them both; a significant commercial footprint, and strong brands. Our new established business unit is intensely focused on increasing revenues and taking a greater share of this market, through our broad and diversified existing portfolio of brands, as well as through the potential acquisition of additional established brands and value adding technologies. We see a very real opportunity to gain a larger share of a fast growing market with good operating margins and as a result, drive new, profitable revenues.

Just to pick one example among many, we have very strong prospects in Latin America due to the strengthening of the economy and a growing emerging middle class. Brazil and Mexico are becoming part of the leading world economies, and Pfizer is already acting to take a growing share of these important markets. Brazil is currently the tenth largest economy in the world and it's expected to grow to the eighth largest by 2012. In this, one of the most important emerging markets in the world, our business continues to grow at double-digit rates, despite the fact that several of our products have no patent protection. The power of the Pfizer brand, combined with the well-respected brands of our established products, enables us to remain the market leader in Latin America, despite the presence of multiple generic versions of our products. We see similar successes across the developing world, giving us confidence that our new focus on emerging markets and established products will produce significant value for Pfizer in the years up to and beyond the Lipitor loss of exclusivity. With these and all of our initiatives, we're focused on driving sustainable changes across Pfizer, improving our performance and enhancing the total return we deliver to our shareholders.

And now I'll turn it over to Frank to talk about this quarter's numbers.

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO, PFIZER, INC.: Thanks, Jeff. Good morning everyone. Now to the results. The charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast and will help facilitate the discussion of our first quarter 2008 results. Now, let me get to our financials. Today we reported revenues for the first quarter 2008 of $11.8 billion, a 5% decrease year over year. To remind you, we discussed on our year-end earnings call that first quarter 2008 revenues might not be comparable to first quarter 2007 revenues due to the loss of the U.S. exclusivity of Norvasc in March of 2007, Zyrtec in January of 2008, which we ceased selling late that month, and Camptosar in February 2008, for a total decrease of $937 million. As we expected, first quarter revenues were negatively impacted by these factors. Specifically, Norvasc revenues decreased $556 million, Zyrtec revenues decreased $344 million, and Camptosar revenues decreased to a much lesser extent by $37 million. Again, these results are as we expected and clearly considered in our full-year 2008 guidance, which we are reaffirming today.

Partially offsetting this negative impact were foreign exchange, which increased reported revenues by approximately $570 million, or 5%, and the solid performance of many new and in-line products. First quarter reported net income of $2.8 billion, decreased 18% and reported diluted EPS of $0.41 decreased 15% year over year, primarily attributable to this quarter's expected decrease in Norvasc and Zyrtec revenues and, to a lesser extent, increased in process R&D expenses associated with our acquisitions, primarily CovX and Coley. These were partially offset by lower cost and expenses related to our cost reduction initiatives and foreign exchange. First quarter adjusted income of $4.1 billion decreased 15% and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.61 decreased 10% year over year, again, driven by the expected decrease in Norvasc and Zyrtec revenues and partially offset by savings from our cost reduction initiatives and foreign exchange. Finally, both reported and adjusted diluted EPS were favorably impacted by the full-year benefit of our $10 billion share repurchase program in 2007.

We had several significant items included in our reported results this quarter. More detailed disclosures will be provided in our Form 10-Q filing with the SEC. In the first quarter, we incurred $177 million in restructuring charges compared with $795 million in the prior-year quarter. This significant decrease was driven by charges related to employee severance payments and costs related to (inaudible) recorded in the year-ago quarter. Restructuring charges are primarily associated with employee costs and asset impairments. We also incurred $357 million of implementation costs compared with $174 million in the prior-year quarter, primarily related to sites we exited or are in the process of exiting. These implementation amounts are primarily reported in cost of sales, R&D, and SI&A expenses and are detailed more fully in the supplemental information accompanying the release.

Now, I'd like to provide more details regarding our first quarter adjusted income components. Adjusted revenues were $11.8 billion, a decrease of 5% year- over year. Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 15.3% in the first quarter, versus 14% in the year-ago quarter. This year-over-year increase reflects the negative effect of foreign exchange. In fact, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue would have been 14.5%, excluding the effect of foreign exchange. In addition, cost of sales was, to a lesser extent, unfavorably impacted by geographic and business mix. These two factors more than offset the savings we achieved from ongoing cost reduction initiatives. Adjusted SI&A expenses were $3.4 billion, a year-over-year increase of 3%, adjusted R&D expenses were $1.6 billion, a slight increase of 1% year over year. Although adjusted cost of sales, SI&A, and R&D expenses benefited from our ongoing cost reduction initiatives, the $330 million negative impact of foreign exchange on adjusted total cost more than offset that benefit. That said, excluding foreign exchange, our first quarter adjusted total cost actually decreased by $170 million operationally year-over-year. Our effective tax rate on adjusted income for the quarter was 21.9% versus 21.7% in the year-ago quarter.

I would also like to provide some quarterly product highlights. As you can see, most key in-line products grew year over year, with the exception of Lipitor, which had revenues of $3.1 billion, a year-over-year decrease of 7% including the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately $135 million, or 4%. In the U.S., Lipitor revenues declined 18% due to the continuing intensely competitive generic market and the overall stat market growing at a slower rate than we had previously expected. Internationally, Lipitor revenues increased 13%, of which 10% was due to foreign exchange and the remainder due to operating growth.

Lyrica, the only FDA approved treatment for fibromyalgia, continued to deliver strong performance, with revenues of $582 million, an increase of 47% year over year. We expect Lyrica to be a key contributor to Pfizer's performance in 2008 and beyond, and U.S. volume of fibromyalgia will be the largest contributor to Lyrica's growth as our prescription volume and market share continues to grow significantly. In addition, Lyrica continues to lead in DPN and PHN, pain conditions with limited treatment options, which combined account for a larger proportion of prescriptions than any other single condition. Finally, we anticipate continued growth across indications supported by an active life cycle management program.

Xalatan and Geodon also posted solid performances with revenue increases of 13% and 12% respectively, and demonstrated growth in both the U.S. and international markets. Key new products, especially Chantix and Sutent, continued to deliver strong growth during the first quarter as compared to prior-year quarter. Year over year, overall Chantix revenues increased 71%, and U.S. revenues increased 33%. In January, we updated the Chantix U.S. label to include additional safety information and as a result, we have recently seen in the U.S. an unfavorable impact on prescription trends, which has been considered in our full-year 2008 guidance. We believe that the issues raised in the label change can be managed with an active patient/physician dialogue. In addition, as a result of our initial interactions with physicians over the past several months, we believe that the benefit/risk proposition for Chantix is sound. Finally, we will continue our aggressive educational promotional efforts with a focus on the Chantix benefit/risk proposition, significant health consequences of smoking and the importance of the physician/patient dialogue.

That said, in international markets, Chantix achieved triple-digit revenue growth year-over-year, albeit off of a smaller base. Chantix launches are continuing outside the U.S. In fact, over the past year, we have launched Chantix in 20 countries and most recently in Singapore, India and Japan, the world's second largest pharmaceutical market. Currently we have launched Chantix in 56 countries and we expect launches in 20 more countries in the next 12 months. Sutent, our treatment for advanced kidney cancer and gastrointestinal stromal tumors posted revenues of $190 million, an increase of 86% compared with the year-ago quarter. Sutent was recently approved for these indications in Japan. In Europe, Sutent has achieved access wins in northern England and Birmingham, and we're currently conducting Phase III trials with Sutent for patients with breast, colorectal and lung cancer. As we expected, revenues from products that recently lost U.S. exclusivity declined year over year. Norvasc revenues declined 52% to $513 million, Zyrtec revenues declined 75% to $117 million, and Camptosar revenues declined 16% to $192 million.

Today, we are reaffirming adjusted income and its components as well as adjusted diluted EPS guidance for full-year 2008, based on a number of factors. From a revenue perspective, the continued growth in many of our new and in-line products, such as Chantix and Sutent as well as Lyrica, Geodon, Xalatan and Viagra. It's important to remember that beginning in the second quarter of 2008, and through the remainder of the year, the impact from the decline in Norvasc revenue will be included in the quarterly results for both 2007 and 2008 because Norvasc lost U.S. exclusive city in March 2007 and we continue to expect operational growth in many international markets. From a cost perspective, we expect to generate savings in 2008 from our continued cost reduction efforts. These efforts continue to span essentially all divisions, functions and markets and sites across Pfizer. Broad categories of activity include manufacturing and research site exits, outsourcing and targeted work force reduction, such as our ongoing previously announced European field force reduction.

We're continuing our process to exit an additional 13 manufacturing plants. By the end of 2009, we expect to reduce our network of these plants around the world to 44. In addition, we're continuing to exit the four remaining R&D sites of the six that have been identified for closure. In 2008 we will recognize a full-year benefit from 2007 site exits and partial year benefit from 2008 exits. In addition, we are decommissioning the insulin-related operations at two dedicated facilities as a result of our decision to exit Exubera. Also, we have a wide array of outsourcing opportunities in various stages of implementation. Manufacturing, logistics, finance, facilities, legal and IT are among the functions contributing to the financial and operational benefits of this strategy.

Finally, we're continuing to match our work force level with market reality. At the end of 2006, our colleagues totaled about 98,000. At the end of 2007, we had approximately 86,600 colleagues and as of March 30, 2008, our head count level was approximately 85,000, representing a sequential decrease of about 1,600 colleagues. As a result of our continuing efforts, we are on track to decrease our adjusted total cost by at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion on a constant currency basis by the end of '08 versus 2006. To reflect the effects of business development transactions completed this quarter, we are updating the range of our reported diluted EPS guidance to $1.73 to $1.88 from $1.78 to $1.93. As we noted last quarter, the reported diluted EPS guidance did not reflect the charges associated with business development transactions that had not yet closed as of December 31, 2007. This range we are providing today includes the impact of IP R&D charges associated with acquisitions that closed in the first quarter, Coley, CovX. and two smaller acquisitions related to animal health. As always, results may vary from quarter to quarter based on the seasonality of revenues and spending and timing of the loss of U.S. exclusivity and patent expirations of certain products, among other things.

So, to summarize the key take-aways. We are reaffirming our 2008 revenue guidance and are on track to meet our commitments. This quarter, many new products including Chantix and Sutent continued to deliver solid performance and we're seeing steady growth from several in-line products, including Lyrica, Geodon, Viagra and Xalatan. This quarter's results were negatively impacted by loss of exclusivity products. We have considered this impact and clearly factored it into our full-year guidance and we're continuing to execute and make progress on our cost reduction plan and continue to expect to generate savings in 2008.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you very much, Frank, and now we're happy to take your questions.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Our first question comes from James Kelly of Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question.

JAMES KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much and good morning. My question has to do with cash balances and where they are domiciled currently and just helping us get comfortable with the longer-term guidance around the dividend being maintained, at least at the current levels through the loss of Lipitor exclusivity. Could you help us -- take us through that maybe a little bit on a mechanistic way on how we should think about that when we deal with that I big of a change in the earnings at that time? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Jim. Frank, you want to take that question?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. Jim, let me -- so let me address the question this way. There's really, in my mind, two underlying points to this question. The first point is, the sustainability of the dividend, and the second issue being if we -- to sustain the dividend, will that cause a decrease in future earnings? So now given that, let me talk to each of them. First, we're a global Company. We generate a significant amount of operating cash from both inside the U.S. and outside the U.S. Last year that was $13.4 billion, this year we forecasted that to be $17 billion to $18 billion per our guidance.

Now, we have a variety of options available to us to fund our business, including the dividend. One of those options is obviously cash flow from operations, including, by the way, increasing our cash flow from operations. Another option that's available to us is repatriating cash from foreign tax jurisdictions, which is something we do from time to time as a normal course of business. Now, to the extent that we repatriate cash from high-tax jurisdictions, that will have a minimal impact on the effective tax rate. To the extent that we repatriate cash from low-tax jurisdictions, that will put upward pressure on the effective tax rate. I'll come back to that.

Another option that's available to us is the capital markets, to borrow money. We have a very strong balance sheet, it provides us with flexibility and capacity to borrow money at favorable rates. Once again, this is something we do from time to time as a normal course of business. In fact, you'll see at the end of Q1 when we file our 10-Q, you'll see that our debt levels somewhat higher at the end of Q1 than they are at the beginning of the year. However, by the end of the year we expect those debt levels to be lower than where they are at the end of Q1 and the incremental interest associated with that debt is already incorporated into our guidance and is not material relative to our overall results for the year. Now, all that said and done, the potential impact on our EPS going forward -- or more specifically, the potential negative impact on our EPS if we were to choose to borrow money or repatriate cash can be mitigated through a variety of actions. Let me go through what some of those actions are.

First, continuing with our tax planning initiatives. We have a very good track record in this area of tax planning, and obviously we expect to continue to do very prudent, very effective tax planning on a going-forward basis. Second area of opportunity is what I call where and how we choose to deploy capital. We clearly have choices that we can make that would increase, for example, our U.S. cash flow. Third, is our ongoing cost reduction initiatives. Cost reduction initiatives will generate incremental cash flow in multiple tax jurisdictions, all of which I view as good. Cash is [fundgable], the interest on net cash can be repatriated back to the U.S. through sub-Part F tax regulations, so all that I view is good. So to wrap this up, the way I think about it is, based on all those factors, I believe that the dividend is sustainable and the potential negative effects can be mitigated.

AMAL NAJ: Thank you, Frank. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Jami Rubin, Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. I just wanted to follow up on Jim's question. So when I look at cash flow from operations, Frank, and as you've said most of this comes from outside the U.S., it looks to me and it's become abundantly clear that U.S. cash flow is actually running at a deficit and just based on the way we see it, it's hard to see how that's going to improve over the the near term and certainly over the long term, given the lack of visibility post Lipitor. So my question to you is how concerned are you being about being in a negative U.S. cash flow situation? And while you highlighted a number of options available to you, I'm still confused as to how those options don't hurt earnings when obviously repatriating cash you do so at a much higher tax rate. I understand your head of taxation recently left so I'm a little confused about that. If you deploy capital such that you decide to sell assets, doesn't that increase your exposure to Lipitor? Obviously taking on more debt increases your interest expense. All that to fund a dividend and working capital. How can that not hurt earnings? If you can just elaborate on that a little bit would be very helpful. Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, sure. Thanks, Jami. So let me say it again and I won't go through everything I just said in the previous answer, I'll just kind of touch on some of the points you made. And so you talked about through Lipitor so let me touch on that part of the question first and then I'll come back to the earnings part of the question. So relative to through Lipitor, the LOE on Lipitor assume is June of 2011, so give or take three years away. Clearly, one of the things we're trying to do in addition to some of the other options I called out is continue to grow revenues; generate new sources of revenues through the five growth strategies that we laid out at our analyst meeting at the beginning of the month. Clearly to the extent we generate incremental revenues, those incremental revenues will generate incremental cash flow and then it's basically all the things I alluded to before, one.

Two, in terms of earnings, what I said before was that basically we can do things that I believe can mitigate the potential negative impact on earnings and I went through some of them. Tax planning initiatives clearly have the ability to mitigate the impact on earnings and cost reduction initiatives clearly have the ability to mitigate the impact on earnings. So it's when I factor all of that in, all the things that we're doing, that I made the statement that I made relative to the options that are available to us, relative to how we fund the business, and the variety of actions that are available to us to mitigate the potential impact of those actions on our earnings in the future.

JEFF KINDLER: And just -- I'd just add, Jami, you made reference to this, that our head of tax, who did an extraordinary job, retired after a very long and distinguished career and has been succeeded by an outstanding global expert on taxes, a terrific guy, will do a great job.

FRANK D'AMELIO: And they're in transition mode, so they're still here. The new person is here. They are transitioning and that transition will take place over the the next several months.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thank you, Jami. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Roopesh Patel, UBS. Please proceed with your question.

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, thank you. My question's on Lipitor. I was wondering if you could please discuss the current competitive dynamics in the cholesterol-lowering market, both in the U.S. and internationally? So far it appears that Lipitor doesn't seem to be benefiting a lot from Vytorin's decline. Why not and what should we expect going forward? It also appears that the Enhance study result hasn't had much of an impact internationally on Lipitor and I was wondering if you could comment on that, as well? Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you Roopesh. I'll turn that over to Ian Read.

IAN READ, PRESIDENT - WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS, PFIZER, INC.: Roopesh, thanks for the question. International sales -- I'll deal with that first -- are quite strong, up 13% and then up, I think, 3% operationally. So I think you've seen, especially in Europe, a stabilization of Lipitor post the generic onslaught of Simvastatin. Vytorin will not really particularly impact our international operations, as it was never a big player out there to begin with. If we turn to the U.S., our sales in the quarter were down 18%, scripts were down 12%. This is the usual fluctuations we see, especially in the first quarter between the reported data and our net sales. That will smooth itself out over the full year.

Now, regarding Enhance, we've only seen the script, so far, two days impact from Enhance -- from the second round of Enhance, and I tend to agree with you that initially most of the gains will be made by generics in the statin, which is paradoxical, as patients are on Vytorin because they can't get the goal within the statin, so I do expect initially to see most of the gains going to generics in the statin. And then, as these patients come back into the physician's office for their lipid testing and their levels, they will not be at goal and then you'll see it transition towards Lipitor, which is positioned in that space. So overall I sort of see a sustained impact on Lipitor over the year, as we're positioned statin of first choice strength across the range, landmark trials, get to goal with Lipitor, and [I think this will be in position for some time]. Does that cover your questions?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Thanks Roopesh.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Mr. Tim Anderson of Sanford Bernstein. Please proceed with your question, sir.

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. A Couple of big picture questions for Jeff. When I look at your scheduled expirations through 2015 it seems like you stand to suffer losses that are almost the highest in the group and it's not just Lipitor but a lot of other drugs, and I guess I still struggle with how you're realistically going to deal with these pending losses, given the approach you outlined at your recent analyst day, so I'm hoping you can reiterate what the longer term strategy is here? And then, Jeff, on the call today you mentioned diversifying your risk, yet back in 2006 you sold off your sizeable consumer business and I guess I question the rational behind that decision. In retrospect I'm wondering if you think that was a wise thing to do. Maybe you can give us some details in your comments about how you might diversify risk in the future?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thanks, Tim. Yes, absolutely we are looking ahead at significant losses of exclusivity on products. There's no question about that. And what we're all about is, as I said before, finding every opportunity that we can to maximize revenue across a whole host of opportunities that we have, whether they be in branded and patent-protected therapeutic areas where we're making decisions to invest to win; in significant areas of high-end unmet medical needs like oncology; whether they be in our in-line products, which as we discussed earlier, many of them are growing quite healthfully; whether they be in established products, which as I indicated before, we see as a huge opportunity for us, and in all these ways and others, we think there's a whole host of opportunities to maximize revenues and that's our job, that's what we're all about trying to do.

Now, I've acknowledged that when Lipitor goes off patent, that's going to be a meaningful event. There's no question about it. It will have a meaningful impact when it occurs on our revenues and earnings. But the important point is that, as we come out of that, all of these opportunities that we have to grow revenues are addressed and optimized to the maximum extent possible, and moreover as I've also said, we'll size the business appropriate for the revenues that we have at that time. So that's sort of the overall big picture.

Regarding diversifying our risk, the consumer sale produced substantial shareholder value. It unlocked an asset for which there was a price of $16 billion paid for it. That decision was made. We're beyond that now. But what I'm talking about in terms of diversifying risk is, I think that sometimes it's under appreciated the number of therapeutic areas that we're in, the number of products we sell, our global footprint. As you travel around the world,I think in just about every market is second to none. And I think that, as I look at the pharmaceutical industry in general, Tim, it is a risky business and I think we all want to find a way not to be so dependent on a particular huge blockbuster, which when it loses patent in the United States has such a big impact.

And so we have to find ways, and we will find ways of taking advantage of this tremendous global footprint that we have. And that includes, obviously, the pipeline, where we feel we have an extremely strong pipeline that is going to hopefully generate a lot of products in the time period that you're talking about and we've made very clear commitments in that regard that Martin described on March 5th and we intend to meet those commitments. And beyond that, this global footprint that we have, the range of products we have, the range of therapeutic areas that we're in, has the opportunity for us to really not just diversify risk but create a multitude of opportunities for revenue enhancement. And the way we're going about doing that, as I've said many times, is by trying to establish very clear, focused accountability on the different parts of this very large business, so that each leader of these different components of the business is highly incentiveized to maximize his or her contribution to the overall picture and that's in a few words the overall approach that we're taking and we're pursuing it very aggressively.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Our next question comes from David Risinger of Merrill Lynch. Please proceed with your question.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, thanks very much. My question is a legal one, I was just hoping that you could discuss the departure of Allen Waxman after the analyst meeting and update us on Lipitor's patent expiration in March of '010. I think Frank said that you're assuming June of '11 is the loss of exclusivity, but the U.S. patent office took that patent away so if you could discuss the time line to get that reinstated? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thank you, David. Regarding Allen, it was an entirely personal matter that had to do with his own personal circumstances and absolutely nothing to do with the business and we regret that he has left the Company. He made great contributions. And I will turn the rest of your question over to David Reed, who is the acting General Counsel.

DAVID REED, ACTING GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER, INC.: Yes, David, the questions about the status of the two Lipitor patents, the main ones, the first is the basic, the 893 patent that is in for re-examination. We responded to the patent office's communication on that. Our response went in on March 7, 2008 and so we await their response to that most recent communication. On the second patent, the [Ananteum] patent, that's the 995 patent that expires in June 2011, we filed for reissuance of that in early 2007. We had a response from the patent office. We responded to that response in October 2007 and we're awaiting for further communication from them on that.

JEFF KINDLER: David, does that answer your question? Oh, okay, I'm told they're muting you because you cannot just ask two questions. I wanted to make sure you were okay with it, so David, if you have further questions, just come back and that's true of everybody, of course. Can I have the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Yes, sir. Our next question comes from Kevin Scotcher of HSBC. Please proceed with your question.

KEVIN SCOTCHER, ANALYST, HSBC: Thanks for taking my question. Jeff, you mentioned that in the first quarter the significance of the international growth goes beyond the quarter. You also mentioned that the gross margin in the first quarter was impacted by geographic mix. Can you talk whether the gross margin impact will also go beyond the first quarter?

JEFF KINDLER: I'll let Frank address that and the whole impact, Frank, about international growth as it pertains to our overall margins.

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. So the way to think about this is I'll start with the revenues and then I'll peel down to cost of sales and talk about it for the quarter and then talk about it for the year. So if you look at our overall business, the rhythm of the -- the revenue numbers, last year in Q1 of '07 U.S. revenues were 55% of the business, international revenue was 45% of the business. If you look now at Q1 of '08, U.S. revenues are about 46.5% of the business, international revenues about 53.5% of the business, so a big swing in terms of the geographic mix of revenues from, I'll call it, 45% international last year, to 53.5% international this quarter, point one. Point two, it's clearly not all revenues are created equally. so some of the revenues we generate outside the U.S. have lower gross margins than revenues we would generate inside the U.S., so that's part of what we call geographic mix when we explain our gross margins.

Now, for this quarter, cost of sales went from 14% last year to 15.3% this year for the quarter, so 130 basis point increase. In that 130 basis point increase, 80 basis points is foreign exchange. Without foreign exchange, the cost of sales would be 14.5%. Then the bridge between the 14% and the 14.5% is a combination of geographic mix and some business mix, which is what I just covered relative to the geographic mix. Now, for the year, we provided guidance for the year on cost of sales of 14.5% to 15.5%, and we've clearly included this geographic mix trend in that guidance. So we've obviously had the trend, we've incorporated that trend into the overall guidance for the year and so the 14.5% to 15.5% factors that in.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Yes, sir. Our next question comes from Mr. John Boris of Bear, Stearns. Please proceed with your question.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS: Thanks for taking the question. Just a financial related question. Can you comment at all, Frank, on -- in the quarter what operational cash flow was and free cash flow in particular was and any split you can give between U.S., ex-U.S. would be helpful? Then on share repurchase, were there any shares repo'd in the quarter? Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, John, on cash flow from ops we'll have that when we file the Q, so that'll be available to everybody in a couple weeks. In terms of share purchases, we did not buy back any shares this quarter. You'll remember last year we bought back ten billion shares -- $10 billion worth of shares, 395 million shares is what it at that translated to, but for the quarter we did not buy back any shares. And the way I think about this is we have many choices for our capital, one of which is purchasing shares, and clearly what we're trying to do, and what we do is deploy capital in ways that we believe provides the best return to our shareholders and that's what we will continue to do on a going-forward basis.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Mr. Steve Scala of Cowen. Please proceed with your question.

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: Thank you. To achieve even the low end of your full-year EPS guidance, earnings growth needs to average mid-teens or so for the next three quarters. Other than the second quarter, the compares are not particularly easy and I appreciate that Norvasc pressure has annualized, but Zyrtec and Camptosar pressure is just beginning and Lipitor is unlikely to accelerate dramatically. Do you still leave that the high end of your earnings range is as likely as the low end, or would you care to direct us one way or the other at this point? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, Steve, I think -- it's Frank. I'll start on the question and I think Ian will add some comments. First, the one thing you said in the question that I just want to come back to is the impact of Zyrtec because the fact is, we saw a big impact of Zyrtec in the quarter on a going-forward basis. That impact will not be any larger than what it was in Q1, just to be clear. So just one point there. But then Camptosar, to your point, will be larger going through the year. All of that has been factored into the guidance that we provided for the year. In terms of where are we in the guidance, quite frankly, the reason we provide a range is so that we can basically work within that range. Now, obviously we want to be as much into the range as we can possibly be, but the reason we provide a range is so that we can work within the range, given the size of the Company and the fact that there's lots and lots of different things that can work for us and that can work against us. I don't want to pinpoint where we are in the range. Obviously, we want to be as high into the range as we can be, but we give a range so we can work within that range, given all the things that can change during the course of a year.

IAN READ: Steve, I'd add to that. If you look at the revenues and the components of that, we've had very strong performance on the international arena with Canada up 36%, Latin America up 28%, Asia up 19%. If you look at products, Lyrica is growing at 47%. We continue to -- we'll continue to focus on Lyrica and drive its growth for fibromyalgia and DPN and PHN. Xalatan's been a strong performer. We expect to focus on Geodon in the second half of this year. I think through our products that we partner, a very strong growths with Spiriva and with Aricept. Sutent has aggressive growth internationally and we have work to do on Chantix in the U.S. to continue to grow that and we have plans in place to do that. And I agree with you, the second quarter of last year is an easier comparator, but overall we have growth products in both in-line and new.

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: From Barbara Ryan, Deutsche Bank, please proceed with your question. ma'am.

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Oh, good morning, thanks for taking my question. Frank, I'm just wondering since obviously you've laid out what you anticipate on the spending basis during the year, we have no idea obviously what you were expecting for the first quarter, so I'm just wondering if you could tell us where you've come in relative to your own expectations, specifically on spending for the quarter? And with that, obviously you talked about currency mitigating some of the benefits and so what are you assuming about currency in your guidance going forward, because you did say ex-currency, $1.5 billion to $2 billion reduction in the cost base relative to the end of '06 and what kind of wiggle room do have you to maneuver around a negative impact from currency on your spending?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Okay.

BARBARA RYAN: Thanks.

FRANK D'AMELIO: You're welcome. So Barbara, in terms of -- I'll call it our expectations, the results that we printed today were very much as we expected. In fact, we tried to say that in the release and in some of our comments and really, as we expected in multiple dimensions. In terms of top line, in terms of spending levels, right through to the bottom line, so very much. I'd say. as we expected. So that's what I'd say on that. Relative to currency, the way we handle this -- or the way I handle it for the quarter is we basically provided guidance based on current exchange rates, so through April. So think about the guidance based on April current exchange rates, and that's what we assume basically in the annual guidance.

Now, to the extent that the exchange rates change and move between now and the end of the year, that's something we'll obviously have to continue to monitor, but then once again, it's part of the reason why we provide a range in our guidance to accommodate that. So you used the term wiggle room, to me part of the wiggle room is why we provide a range so that we can accommodate some of these kind of things to a degree. And then back to the question I had before, now obviously we will work as best we can to be as high in the range as we can, but there's lots of things that can move during the year, which is why we provide a range on the numbers.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Yes, sir. Our next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann & Company. Please proceed with your question.

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN & COMPANY: Thanks very much. So just a couple questions on the last comment there in terms of the expectation. I guess one expectation that I certainly didn't have coming into the quarter was the impact of the Enhance study on the overall cholesterol marketplace, so can you just help me understand what your expectations were for Lipitor overall? And then in the fourth quarter -- on the fourth quarter conference call, Frank, you actually mentioned that the inventory levels were running at about two-and-a-half weeks. Jeff, you actually mentioned seasonality. So can you just help me understand the mix of those two things. When we talk about seasonality, are we talking about wholesaler buying patterns on that front, and if we're at two-and-a-half weeks, where are we at the inventory at this point on the overall business? And can you update us in terms of where we are on Lipitor in terms of overall wholesaler stocking levels?

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thanks. I'll ask Ian to talk about the Lipitor part of your question and then Frank will address the seasonality issues that you raised.

IAN READ: Seamus, so Lipitor in the quarter, Lipitor was on our expectations. So on your second question, vis-a-vis the Enhance impact, I'm not quite sure you were expecting Enhance to do. We've seen initially in the switch part of the market a reasonably dramatic impact where our switch have dropped in half away from Lipitor, so that's a very positive impact for us. The issue of course is new patient acquisition, and as I was describing before, I think initially a lot of the Vytorin loss of volume will go to Simvastatin because of the pressure of managed care and then subsequently, I think when cholesterol levels are measured, they'll have to go back to Lipitor to get to goal, so I think that covers that part of it.

JEFF KINDLER: So, Ian, I think part of Seamus' question had to do with the overall statin market growth. Do you want to talk about that?

IAN READ: Well, the market growth is -- I think in Mar -- in January we talked about market growth as mid single to high single digits. We're now seeing it as mid single, perhaps slightly lower, and we'll see what happens post Enhance and what happens in the statin market. It's difficult to predict it right now what the growth will be.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thank you -- thanks, Ian. And, Frank, do you want to talk about the seasonality and inventory question?

FRANK D'AMELIO: Yes, in terms of weeks on hand, the way that we look at this is really on a year-over-year basis. If you look at the weeks on hand that's in our wholesalers now, from Q1 of '07 to Q1 of '08 the weeks on hand is essentially flat. There is no change from one quarter to the next, so constant year over year.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: A follow-up question coming from Roopesh Patel of UBS. Please proceed, sir.

ROOPESH PATEL: Yes, thank you. What was the impact of price on overall revenue growth? If you could give us a rough sense that would be very helpful. And then in terms of the $1.5 billion to $2 billion in overall targeted cost cuts this year, can you clarify what those numbers would be in today's dollars? In other words, at current exchange rates. Thanks.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Frank?

FRANK D'AMELIO: So in terms of the first part of the question --

JEFF KINDLER: Just price -- price impact on revenues,

FRANK D'AMELIO: So on price it was favorable for the quarter to the tune of 2%. In fact, the way the quarter worked overall, price helped, volume hurt, and FX helped. And the piece parts of that were essentially 2% on price to answer your question specifically. In terms of the $1.5 billion to 2 billion, the way I think about that is in almost '06 dollar terms, because what we're really doing is looking at that based on constant currency, that goes back to 2006 where we're deriving the $1.5 billion to $2 billion. We obviously achieved some of that through last year, through 2007. We're working to achieve the rest of that through this year. We reaffirmed that number and it's based on those constant currency rates as of 2006.

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: This question comes from Mr. Mike Krensavage of Raymond James. Please proceed with your question, sir.

MIKE KRENSAVAGE, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Good morning.

JEFF KINDLER: Good morning.

MIKE KRENSAVAGE: I'd like to know how much of a tale Lipitor might have after it goes generic in the U.S. If you look at Merck's Zocor, for example, it's still annualizing at more than $800 million, but mostly with the international sales, so would Lipitor have a similar tail? Thank you.

JEFF KINDLER: Well, let me just say -- and I'll turn this over to Ian in a minute -- but obviously there is a big difference between international and the U.S. when it comes to that. And as I mentioned earlier -- and this is one of the reasons why I think there's a lot of opportunity in our established products market -- as Dave Simmons laid out on March 5th, the world is very different in different parts of the world and there are markets in which there has been no patent protection and we are selling Lipitor in competition with a whole variety of a tour of statin products and in fact, still leading those particular markets. So in many parts of the world, particularly in the developing markets, brand remains very important because the driving force from the consumption side are the positions and the patients. Now obviously it's quite different in the United States where managed care is much more dominant and therefore, the falloff is much more precipitous. I certainly wouldn't want to predict exactly what sorts of sales we might have in the U.S. at that time, but if you wanted Ian to give some qualitative thoughts about it?

IAN READ: Well, I think, as Jeff said, we're focused on maximizing the value from Lipitor post patent expiration and in that sense we're focused on ensuring that, in percentage wise, vis-a-vis patent sub or patent expirations, like Zocor that we maintain as good or if not higher a percentage of that business. An important fact to look into on the size of the tail, in fact, will be a dynamic that's difficult to calculate, but when Lipitor goes off patent, there'll be -- I think it's a fundamentally large expansion in the use of (inaudible) statin in the lipid market, which will also influence the tail of Lipitor. So I think the dynamics of Lipitor patent expiration will be different from the dynamic of Zocor patent expiration.

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks very much, Ian. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: And our last question comes from Mr. David Risinger of Merrill Lynch. Please proceed, sir.

DAVID RISINGER: Yes, thanks very much. There's been a lot of discussion about foreign exchange but, Frank, I was hoping that you could tell us what the bottom-line EPS impact of FX was in the first quarter of '08? And if you can, if you could compare that to the bottom-line EPS impact of FX a year ago in the first quarter of '07, and also in the fourth quarter of '07 sequentially? Thank you.

FRANK D'AMELIO: So, Dave, for this quarter it was $0.03, so -- and basically we called out on the quarter the $560 million, $570 million of revenue, depending on reported versus adjusted, and then the impact on cost was $330 million, so when you do the math, you get roughly $0.03. And quite frankly, in terms of the EPS numbers for first quarter and fourth quarter of last year, I don't remember the specific number. It was a comparable number, but I just don't remember what the exact numbers were, so that's something we can obviously -- we can get back to you on, but it was $0.03 for this quarter.

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, David, and thank you everyone for listening in this morning. We appreciate your time and that will be it for today. Have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080501e44h000jx
  


 HD
 Q4  2007  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,997 words
   PD
23 January 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: (technical difficulty) Amal Naj, Head of Development. Please begin the call.   

AMAL NAJ, SVP OF INVESTOR DEVELOPMENT,  PFIZER, INC.: Good afternoon and thank you for joining us on this call to review our fourth quarter 2007 performance. I'm here with Jeff Kindler, Chairman and CEO, Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer, and other members of our senior management. The financial charts that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage at   www.Pfizer.com   in the investor presentations tab by clicking on the link quarterly corporate performance fourth quarter 2007. We will end our conference call at 1 o'clock sharp, and as we would like you to -- as we would like to hear from as many of you in this time, we would appreciate it if you would limit yourselves to just one part question. Time permitting, we will come back to you for any follow-ups.   

   TD
Before we start, I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in  Pfizer's 2006 annual report on Form 10-K, and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliations of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in  Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K, dated January 23, 2008. These reports are available on our Web site, at   www.Pfizer.com  , in the investors SEC filings section.   

Now I would like to turn this over to Jeff Kindler.   

JEFF KINDLER, CHAIRMAN AND CEO,  PFIZER, INC.: Thanks, Amal. Good afternoon and welcome, everyone. Thank you very much for joining us today. Frank will review the numbers for the quarter and the year in a few moments, but I'd like to just make a few opening remarks.   

When I took this position, it was clear that fundamental change was imperative at  Pfizer, that tough decisions had to be made, and that we had to act with a sense of urgency. We faced an environment where our traditional business model had come under attack. We saw a company facing significant losses of exclusivity, weighed down by layers of bureaucracy, slow to make decisions, and in many cases, at odds with regulators, payors and policymakers. For success in the decade ahead, we needed to get our house in order and we needed to get moving. We knew that quick fixes were simply not the answer. We set out to create a company that has the advantages of global scale, but also the agility, speed and decisiveness of a small enterprise.   

One year ago, we announced a set of immediate priorities to rebuild the foundation of our business and improve  Pfizer's performance. These set the stage for the sweeping changes that  Pfizer needs to make in order to succeed in a changing industry. Today, while we still have a lot of work to do, we are in a much stronger position to meet our challenges and capitalize on our opportunities than we were one year ago.   

We achieved both revenue and adjusted diluted earnings per share growth in 2007, despite losing US market exclusivity for Norvasc and Zoloft, while making important structural and operating changes to enhance our future performance. We did this with solid product performance across a broad and diverse portfolio, cost reductions, and the benefits of foreign exchange.   

By the end of last year we had in place in our new leadership team, and I'm particularly pleased with the group that we have assembled. It has, in my view, a good balance between leaders with strong and extensive experience in our industry, and people from other industries who bring fresh ideas and perspectives. Each member of our team fully appreciates what we need to do, and is fully aligned behind our plans to achieve success.   

Before turning it over to Frank, I'd like to briefly highlight how we're making progress against our priorities and outline the next phase of our plan, which we'll cover in much more detail at our March 5th analyst meeting.   

Our five priorities last January were -- first, maximize revenues in both the short and the long-term; second, establish a lower and more flexible cost base; third, create smaller, more focused and accountable business units; fourth, build more collaborative relationships to deliver greater value for patients, physicians and customers; and fifth, make  Pfizer a great place to work.   

On our first priority, we are maximizing revenues from both our new products as well as our current in-line portfolio. Three new products are noteworthy. Lyrica, an innovative treatment for diabetic nerve pain and postherpetic neuralgia, and now the first medicine to ever win FDA approval for the management of fibromyalgia. Sutent, a breakthrough way to fight two tough-to-treat cancers, and a drug with the potential to treat other devastating cancers, including breast cancer. And Chantix, which has now been tried by more than 5 million smokers and is growing rapidly worldwide.   

Meanwhile, Lipitor continues to hold its own, generating sales only slightly less than last year, despite an unprecedented commercial and competitive attack. Even now, after 10 years, new data still comes in showing why it remains the industry leader. And we have a host of other innovative products doing well, like Celebrex, Geodon and Zyvox. And our Animal Health business continues to deliver outstanding performance.   

In terms of future revenues, in 2007 we accelerated a new compound for generalized anxiety disorder into Phase III, and moved three high-value oncology indications -- melanoma, breast and lung cancer -- into Phase III. We're also moving forward aggressively on the largest Phase II portfolio in  Pfizer's history. And to supplement our efforts internally, we've revamped our business development group to capitalize on external opportunities, like our Apixaban collaboration with  Bristol-Myers Squibb.

We entered into 14 deals last year. These include our acquisitions of BioRexis, with its diabetes candidates and novel peptide technology platform; Coley Pharmaceutical Group, with its vaccine adjuvant technology and a new class of drug candidates; and CovX, which will substantially enhance our biotherapeutics capabilities. We also entered into an important collaboration with Adolor to develop two novel compounds for the treatment of pain, a therapeutic area in which we already have a strong and leading position.   

To deliver on our second priority, establishing a smaller, more flexible cost base, we took some tough actions last year, including a 10% reduction in our global workforce, and 20% in the US sales force. We said we would do everything possible to minimize disruptions to our business, and we did. It's worth noting that even with all o the changes this year, our US sales force was once again ranked the best in the industry by physicians for the 13th year in a row. And our terrific salespeople around the world are earning similar recognitions.   

To enhance R&D efficiency and productivity, we closed two US R&D sites and announced the closure of three international sites. We streamlined our therapeutic area structure and cut the layers of management in PGRD between myself and the bench scientists from 13 to eight. In manufacturing, we exited six sites in 2007 and plan to exit 12 more, and we achieved significant production cost reductions on key products. These actions were painful, but they were necessary. We significantly cut costs in 2007, and we're on track to achieve absolute reductions of our total adjusted costs next year of between 1.5 and $2 billion on a constant currency basis compared to 2006.   

To create smaller and more accountable business units, our third priority, we created five separate business units in the US for our patent-protected portfolio. The new US business units already have lots of success stories demonstrating their new agility and speed. We also recently established a new separate unit, focused solely on optimizing the performance of our established products, products that are near or past their loss of exclusivity. This new unit is led by a skilled executive with substantial pharmaceutical experience around the world, including in markets where these established products are very successful.   

In R&D we put each therapeutic area in a single location, allowing colleagues to have a clear line of sight to a smaller, more focused enterprise. We have new leadership in several of these therapeutic areas, and we're well on our way to ensuring greater focus, accountability and entrepreneurship in each of these R&D units. We also created a separate biotherapeutics and bioinnovations center, led by world-class scientists, to discover, license and acquire more new candidates for the pipeline.   

We also have good progress to report on our fourth priority, building more meaningful collaborations with other individuals and organizations with whom we can partner to add value. We have signed over 1000 new scientific alliances this past year. These include major deals such as Icagen, which provides a novel opportunity in pain, Tacere  Therapeutics, which offers an RNAi approach to the treatment of hepatitis C, and  Taisho Pharmaceuticals, which presents opportunities in the schizophrenia area.   

We also entered into a unique collaboration with the Scripps Research Institute that is already bearing fruit. And we created the  Pfizer Incubator to work with academic, biotech and venture communities on innovative ways to answer some tough questions.   

We've also significantly improved our relationships with key trade and managed care customers. We've improved our formulary positions for some of our key products, giving us the opportunity to provide our products to millions of patients. We're also actively exploring collaborations with best-in-class companies in a number of areas where we can work together to create value, including improving patient outcomes and achieving joint clinical support.   

Finally, our fifth priority, making  Pfizer a great place to work. We've significantly streamlined the organization, reducing layers and increasing spans of control. The move toward smaller units will empower thousands of colleagues. Among many other important changes, we brought in a world-class talent development leader from  Microsoft.

Most importantly from my perspective, we've urged our colleagues to be as candid and open as possible, and I am very encouraged by the way they have responded. They're telling us quite clearly what is working and what is not working. We are listening to them, and we are moving quickly to respond to their views at every level.   

Overall, while we have lots more to do, we're making steady progress in establishing  Pfizer as a company where open communications, empowerment, focus and accountability are the norm, with a performance-based culture that recognizes and rewards outstanding contributions from  Pfizer colleagues. We will continue to execute against these five priorities in every part of  Pfizer. Our objective, of course, is to position the Company to deliver strong total shareholder return. And at our March 5th analyst meeting, we'll talk in detail about longer-term strategies to invest in our future, create value with our science and technology, and deliver innovative healthcare. But today, I'll simply list in broad terms the areas where we are concentrating.   

We intend first to refocus and optimize the patent-protected portfolio. Second, find new opportunities for established products. Third, accelerate our growth in emerging markets. Fourth, invest in complementary businesses. And fifth, establish and sustain an unwavering commitment to innovation and a culture of continuous improvement. We'll have much more to say about all of this on March 5th, including outlining key milestones by which you can track our progress.   

A final comment before I turn this over to Frank. Much has changed at  Pfizer, and much will change. The urgent challenges we face present great opportunities. They have galvanized us to react fast, rebuild our foundation, and renew our determination. I am pleased with our progress, but all of us at  Pfizer know that we have more work ahead to deliver on our commitments to our shareholders and build the value of our business for the long-term. Frank?   

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO,  PFIZER, INC.: Thanks, Jeff. Good day, everyone. Now for the results. The charts I will be reviewing today are included in our Webcast and will help facilitate the discussion of our fourth quarter and full year 2007 results. With that, let me get to our financials.   

Today we reported revenues for the fourth quarter of 2007 of 13.1 billion, a 4% increase compared with the year-ago quarter, despite Norvasc loss of US exclusivity, which contributed to a 666 million decrease in Norvasc revenues. Fourth-quarter revenue was positively impacted by foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately 610 million, or 5%, and the strong performance of many new and in-line products.   

Reported net income of 2.9 billion for the fourth quarter decreased 70%, and reported diluted EPS of $0.42 decreased 68% compared with the year-ago quarter. These declines are primarily due to a onetime after-tax gain of 7.9 billion, or about $1.08 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2006 related to the sale of the Consumer Healthcare business, which was partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange, lower acquisition-related IPR&D charges, and other items. Adjusted income of 3.6 billion for the fourth quarter increased 17%, and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.52 increased 21% compared with the year-ago quarter. These increases were primarily the result of the favorable impact of foreign exchange, as well as our cost-reduction initiatives.   

Now to the full year. Full year 2007 revenues increased 1% to 48.6 billion compared with 2006, despite the loss of US exclusivity in both Norvasc and Zoloft, which decreased by approximately 1.9 and 1.6 billion, respectively. Full-year revenues were again positively impacted by foreign exchange of approximately 1.5 billion, which increased revenues by about 3%, and the strong performance of many new and in-line products.   

Full year 2007 reported net income of 8.3 billion declined 57% compared with 2006, and full-year reported diluted EPS of $1.20 declined 55% year-over-year. The year-over-year comparison [was negatively] impacted by the onetime after-tax gain of 7.9 billion, or $1.08 per diluted share, related to the sale of the Consumer Healthcare business, the after-tax charges of 2.1 billion we recorded in the third quarter of 2007, primarily related to the write-off of assets and other costs associated with our decision to exit Exubera, and higher after-tax charges of 2.7 billion associated with our cost-reduction initiatives, which increased from 1.4 billion in 2006.   

Full-year adjusted income increased 2% to 15.3 billion, and adjusted diluted EPS increased 7% to $2.20 compared with 2006. Full-year adjusted income and adjusted diluted EPS were favorably impacted by foreign exchange and our ongoing cost-reduction initiatives. In addition, adjusted diluted EPS was also favorably impacted by our share purchase program.   

Let me point out several significant items that are included in our reported results for the fourth quarter. More detailed disclosures will be provided in our Form 10-K filing with the SEC.   

In the fourth quarter we incurred 213 million in restructuring charges, as compared with 495 million in the prior-year quarter. These charges are primarily associated with employee costs and asset impairments. In addition, we incurred 525 million of implementation costs, compared with 241 million in the prior-year quarter. These costs are primarily related to sites we exited or are in the process of exiting. These amounts are reported in cost of sales, R&D and SI&A expenses, and are detailed more fully in the supplemental information accompanying the release.   

Throughout the year, specific cost-reduction initiatives spanned essentially all divisions, functions, markets and sites across  Pfizer. Broad categories of activity included sales force reductions, manufacturing research site exits, and outsourcing. We reduced our US sales force by about 20% and have implemented similar reductions in many other markets. We have exited six manufacturing plants and two R&D sites in 2007. Furthermore, we are in the process of exiting an additional 12 manufacturing plants and four R&D sites. To date, all transitions are proceeding according to plan.   

In addition, research programs and development projects have been transferred and stabilized in their new location with minimal disruption. Moreover, a wide array of outsourcing opportunities are in various stages of implementation. Manufacturing, logistics, finance, facilities, legal and IT are among the functions contributing to the financial and operational benefits of this strategy.   

Now I'd like to provide more details regarding our adjusted income components.   

Adjusted revenues for the quarter were 13 billion, an increase of 3% versus the prior-year quarter, despite Norvasc loss of US exclusivity in March 2007, which contributed to a 666 million decrease in Norvasc revenues.   

Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 17.4% in the fourth quarter, compared with 16.6% in the year-ago quarter. The increase was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. In fact, cost of sales as a percentage of revenues actually improved modestly excluding the effect of foreign exchange. And to a lesser extent, unfavorable geographic and business mix, which more than offset savings from ongoing cost-reduction initiatives.   

Adjusted SI&A expenses were 4.5 billion for the quarter, an increase of 1% compared with the year-ago quarter. Adjusted R&D expenses were 2.2 billion, a decrease of 9% compared with the year-ago quarter. Adjusted SI&A and R&D expenses, as well as adjusted cost of sales, were favorably impacted by savings from our ongoing cost-reduction initiatives. However, this was offset by the unfavorable impact of approximately 480 million from foreign exchange on total costs. Our effective tax rate on adjusted income for the quarter was 18.2%, which decreased due to changes in our geographic income mix.   

I would also like to highlight the performance of selected products during the fourth quarter.   

First, Lipitor worldwide revenues increased 3% (technical difficulty) billion compared with the year-ago quarter. The favorable impact of foreign exchange was approximately 150 million, which increased revenues by about 4%. Revenues in the US declined 4% due to continued intense competition and payor pressure, while revenues from international markets increased 13%, of which 11% was due to foreign exchange, and the remainder due to operating growth.   

As you can see, most key in-line products grew in the fourth quarter as compared to the prior-year quarter, with the exception of Zyrtec. Given the US patent expiration in December of 2007, and pending launch of over-the-counter Zyrtec, we will cease selling the product this month. Full-year 2007 revenues for Zyrtec were $1.5 billion.   

In addition, I want to point out that we will also lose US patent protection for Camptosar in February 2008. Full year 2007 revenues for Camptosar were 969 million, of which 539 million was from the US.   

[Three] new products, including Chantix, Lyrica and Sutent, continued to deliver strong growth during the quarter. Chantix, our prescription treatment to aid smoking cessation, achieved revenues of 280 million, an increase of 311% compared with the year-ago quarter. Last week we updated the label for Chantix to include an additional warning for patients. The potential impact of this action has been considered in our guidance for 2008.   

Lyrica, our medicine for the management of neuropathic pain and, more recently, fibromyalgia, delivered revenues of 564 million, an increase of 60% compared with the year-ago quarter.   

Finally, Sutent, our product for advanced kidney cancer and gastrointestinal stromal tumors, posted revenues of 182 million, an increase of 75% compared with the year-ago quarter.   

As expected, revenues from Zoloft and Norvasc, which lost US exclusivity in August of '06 and March of '07, respectively, continued to decline during the fourth quarter. Compared with the year-ago quarter, Norvasc revenues decreased 51% to 650 million, and Zoloft revenues decreased 20% to 134 million.   

As you can see from the chart, we exceeded our 2007 top-line and bottom-line expectations regarding our '07 financial guidance, which we previously announced on last quarter's conference call. We posted 48.4 billion of adjusted revenues, beating our previous expectations, and achieved reported diluted EPS of $1.20 and adjusted diluted EPS of $2.20, both exceeding the previous expected ranges.   

Our 2007 adjusted SI&A expenses decreased by 560 million from '06 levels on a constant currency basis, slightly lower than our previous expectation of approximately (technical difficulty). Total adjusted SI&A expenses of 15.2 billion were essentially at our guidance of approximately $15.1 billion.   

In addition, we recorded adjusted R&D expenses of 7.5 billion, consistent with our guidance. Our effective tax rate on adjusted income was 21%, slightly better than our expectations. And we expect to generate cash flows from operations at or above our guidance of 12 to 13 billion. Also, our Lipitor revenues declined 2% for the year, better than our previous guidance of a 3 to 5% decline in comparison to 2006.   

That said, our adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues was 15.9% for the year versus guidance of 15.5%. As I previously mentioned, this variance was due to the unfavorable geographic and business mix, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, which more than offset savings from our ongoing cost-reduction initiatives.   

Looking to 2008, our full-year guidance is as follows. We expect annual revenues in the range of 47 to 49 billion, reflecting an increase of 500 million to both the bottom and top-ends of our previous range; a reduction of adjusted total costs from 2006 levels of at least 1.5 to $2 billion on a constant currency basis; adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue of 14.5 to 15.5%, resulting from the full-year benefit in 2008 of manufacturing site exits in 2007 and ongoing cost-savings efforts.   

We also expect adjusted R&D in the range of 7.3 to 7.6 billion; adjusted SI&A in the range of 14.4 to 14.9 billion; reported diluted EPS in the range of $1.78 to $1.93, reflecting a $0.03 increase to the bottom-end of our previous range; adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $2.35 to $2.45, reflecting a $0.04 increase to the bottom-end of our previous range; an effective tax rate of 22 to 22.5% on adjusted income; cash flows from operations of 17 to 18 billion, which is $1 billion less than our previous guidance, due primarily to the estimated timing of tax payments.   

As always, results may vary from quarter to quarter based on the seasonality of revenues and spending and the timing of the loss of US exquisitely and patent expirations of certain products, among other things.   

First quarter 2008 revenues may not be comparable to the first quarter 2007 revenues as a result of the loss of US exclusivity of Norvasc, Camptosar and Zyrtec, which we will cease selling this month following the anticipated launch of an over-the-counter Zyrtec. Collectively, these products contributed US revenues of about 1.1 billion in the first quarter of '07 and 2.7 billion in the full year 2007. It is important to note that we have considered these factors in our full year 2008 guidance.   

Going forward, our focus remains on building total shareholder value by achieving our financial goals, maintaining spending discipline, prudently allocating our capital, and improving our cost structure.   

So, to summarize the key takeaways, we exceeded our '07 revenue and EPS guidance provided last quarter. Regarding 2008 guidance, we increased the top and bottom-ends of our previous revenue guidance range by 500 million, and increased the bottom-end of our adjusted diluted EPS range by $0.04, and our reported diluted EPS by $0.03.   

Our new products, especially Lyrica, Chantix and Sutent, continued to deliver strong growth, and partially offset decreasing revenues from products that have lost exclusivity. Revenue from these three new products increased to 3.3 billion in 2007 from 1.5 billion in 2006.   

Finally, we are continuing to execute on our plan to reduce costs, and we expect to continue to realize savings on these initiatives in 2008.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you very much, Frank. Now we'd be happy to take your questions.   

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: On Lipitor, hoping you can provide us an update on what the unrestricted tier 2 access is in the US for the product in 2008 relative to what it was for 2007. And if you could remind us what that figure was for 2006, that would be helpful. And related to that, do you foresee the recent ENHANCE results bettering the formulary placement of Lipitor, or not?   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you. Is that Tim Anderson?   

TIM ANDERSON: Yes.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Tim. We had a little technical difficulty there. Ian, would you like to --? This is Ian Read, President of Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations.   

IAN READ, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS,  PFIZER, INC.: I think tier 2 access in -- I don't have the '06 numbers -- '07 was above 65% on tier 2 access, and we expect to maintain or slightly improve that in '08. In regard to ENHANCE, it's really too early to tell the impact. Vis-a-vis the formulary position, our formulary position is in place; we're in tier 2. So, just too early to tell.   

TIM ANDERSON: That 65% is unrestricted tier 2?   

IAN READ: The vast majority of it is unrestricted.   

TIM ANDERSON: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: John Boris,  Bear Stearns.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Thanks for taking the questions. Just on the first-quarter revenues, traditionally, when you take your annual price increase, you do traditionally allow wholesalers an opportunity to buy in for a period of time. Can you -- at the old 2007 pricing level. Can you confirm how that might have an impact on revenues going into the first quarter, or if it will at all? And then a question on gross margins. I believe Zyrtec, being a partner product from UCB, is below your current gross margin. Can you also confirm if Camptosar is also below your current gross margin? And then just finally on foreign exchange, you disclosed a 5% benefit. Can you comment on what the contribution of price and volume was in the quarter? Thanks.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks for following the request to stick to one question at a time. We'll start with the first question regarding the first-quarter revenue impact of -- on Lipitor.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think the way -- let me take a shot at this. I think the way I'll answer that is by saying, if you look at our weeks on hand at the end of the year, they were basically 2.5 weeks, which were down from the year-ago quarter. And if you look at our third-quarter weeks on hand, that was also down on a year-over-year basis. In terms of what we're doing relative to our distributors, inventory levels were actually down (inaudible).   

In terms of Camptosar and the gross margin on Camptosar, relative to our overall gross margin, obviously, many of our products have higher gross margins relative to our overall gross margins, of which Camptosar is one of those.   

And in terms of the last question on FX, I think the way I'll answer that is just what we have included in the release, which is if you look at the positive impact of FX for the year, it was about 600 million, 610 million for the year on the top-line; it's about $1.5 billion on the top-line for the full-year. So, 600 million Q1, $1.5 billion for the full year -- obviously, with that having a benefit on the bottom-line as well.   

OPERATOR: David Risinger,  Merrill Lynch.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. With respect to FX, I was hoping that you could provide a little bit more color on the FX contribution to the bottom-line EPS in the fourth quarter of '07 and in the full year '07. Thank you.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: I can clearly do that. For the fourth quarter, give or take, it was about 200 million, and for the year it was about 600 million. That's when you basically factor in the positive impact on the top-line, and I'll call it the increase it causes in cost of sales, SI&A and R&D, and then when all is said and done, the flow-through of all that to the bottom-line, including other income. So, all said and done, about 200 million for the quarter, about 600 million for the full year.   

DAVID RISINGER: Could you provide any color on your assumption for '08, the benefit to '08 EPS?   

FRANK D'AMELIO: What we did is for '08 guidance, we basically used current exchange rates, so January exchange rates. So we're not making any assumptions about what's going to happen to exchange on a going-forward basis. We basically used the January exchange rates. The only place where we didn't do that was in the total adjusted cost number, where we said 1.5 to 2 billion reduction from 2006 spending levels at constant exchange rates. So, that's the one subtlety where we didn't do it. Other than that, it's all at January current exchange rates.   

OPERATOR: Christopher Schott, Banc of America Securities.   

CHRISTOPHER SCHOTT, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Thank you. Just a quick question relative to what's happening with Vytorin following ENHANCE. I know it's probably too early to tell regarding  Pfizer's potential benefit from this data. But maybe just from a sector level, when we see a surrogate like LDL kind of seemingly dismissed in the markets in the face of just one conflicting data point, first of all, are you surprised by that? And second, how do you view that in the context of your investment you're making in more kind of prophylactic types of therapies? Thanks.   

IAN READ: I don't think that LDL was dismissed as a surrogate; it was how you lower LDL was the issue. And clearly, there is a wealth of evidence that lowering LDL with statins gives positive outcome. Lipitor has 10 landmark trials on that issue. So I think the role that LDL plays is firmly established and will continue to be so. So, what was the second part of your question?   

CHRISTOPHER SCHOTT: I guess it was just a general question maybe as we're looking outside of even the statin market, when we look at these more prophylactic-type of therapies, are you looking at maybe having to run more outcome studies, even to get drugs approved, than in the past? It just seems like it's a pretty difficult environment right now.   

JEFF KINDLER: Martin, would you like to address that?   

MARTIN MACKAY, PRESIDENT, PFIZER GLOBAL RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT,  PFIZER, INC.: (inaudible) to see, Chris, on what we would do with those in terms of the studies that we'd need to conduct on prophylactics.   

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin,  Morgan Stanley.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Just wanted to go back to the gross margin question. Frank, obviously, the gross margin was hurt this quarter by foreign currency, even though revenues were highly benefited from foreign currency, as well as strength of other products. Can you tell us what the gross margin in the fourth quarter and the full year 2007 would have been without the foreign currency effects, so that we can sort of look at 2008 on an apples-to-apples basis, if that's fair?   

FRANK D'AMELIO: Let me just run the numbers, Jami, and then I'll go down a layer and I'll answer the question. So, if you look at Q4 gross margin, I'm going to flip it to cost of sales, just because it's easier for me. If you look at the cost of sales Q4 '06 to Q4 '07, they went from 16.6% to 17.4%. If you were to strip out FX, the 16.6% would have actually declined modestly, literally declined modestly. If you look at the full year, gross margins went from 14.9% to 15.9%. Roughly half of that increase was due to FX. So think about it as fairly evenly distributed between FX and then unfavorable geographic and business mix. So of the 14.9 to 15.9, roughly half of that was FX.   

JAMI RUBIN: So the midpoint guidance for 2008, roughly, assumes flat gross margins?   

FRANK D'AMELIO: So if you look at the midpoint it's 15%, and what I said was 14.9 to 15.9, with roughly half of that due to FX. So that would bring you closer to, I'll call it, 15.5. And what's really happening there is why 15.5, or 15.9 on an adjusted basis, versus the range of 14.5 to 15.5? If I may, let me spend a minute or two on that. There's really several things going on their.   

One is we exited six manufacturing facilities in 2007. We will get the benefit, the full-year benefit of that, in 2008. We've also have announced 12 manufacturing facility exits that are in process. We'll get some benefit from that in 2008.   

In terms of other things we're doing to reduce costs, we're basically expecting to lower our sourcing costs -- so think about kind of our material sourcing costs -- by establishing strategic partnerships with some lower-cost vendors. We have many projects underway. They're not all cooked. They're in various stages of implementation. But on many of those, we'll get benefit in 2008. And then we have multiple projects going on in many of the divisions in the Company, with manufacturing, logistics, facilities, IT, where we'll generate savings in 2008, some of which will accrue to the cost of sales line item. So it's based on all of that when we provided -- we obviously incorporated all that into our guidance for '08, which gets you into that 14 to 15.5 range, even though the number was 15.9% in 2007.   

JAMI RUBIN: That's helpful. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Roopesh Patel,  UBS.

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST,  UBS: I have a couple of very quick questions. First, what's the price and volume breakdown of overall revenue growth during the fourth quarter? And then separately on Lipitor, what's the status of the patent challenges in Canada and the [other key] international markets? I'm wondering whether in any of these markets there is the potential for Lipitor to encounter generic competition in 2008. Thanks.   

JEFF KINDLER: I'll let Frank address the first question, and Allen Waxman, our General Counsel, will answer the second.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: Allen, you want to go first on the --?   

ALLEN WAXMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL,  PFIZER, INC.: Sure. In Canada, there are two proceedings with two different generics that are ongoing at this point. First, we're awaiting an appellate decision on the case with Ranbaxy with respect to the enantiomer patent. That has been argued, it's been fully briefed, and we're awaiting that decision. We received a favorable decision against Ranbaxy on our crystalline form patents, which holds them off the market most likely through 2008. So, that's Ranbaxy.   

Apotex, we are taking an appeal on a recent unfavorable ruling on the enantiomer patent. We also have crystalline form trials against Apotex. Too early to determine outcomes of those cases.   

With respect internationally in Europe, almost in every market the basic patent expires after the enantiomer patent, and that expires in 2011. So thus far, we have been successful in holding onto that date of expiry. In Spain there are some cases on appeal that we're awaiting outcomes on that could have an impact in that market. Just too early to tell.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Allen. Roopesh, let me just add to that that the potential outcomes in Canada are reflected in the guidance for '08 that we provided today. With regard to your question about price and volume, I'll let Frank have a crack at that.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: Let me take a shot at this in terms of what we provide relative to this. I think at an overall level, across the total company, price had a favorable impact, volume had an unfavorable impact, both of which were in the low single-digits for the full year. Kind of low single-digits on price; call it low to mid single-digits on volume.   

OPERATOR: Scott Braunstein,  JPMorgan Asset Management.   

SCOTT BRAUNSTEIN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT: Would you mind just walking us through the Norvasc patent expiries throughout Europe and the rest of the world?   

JEFF KINDLER: Sure. Ian has that right in front of him, ready to --   

IAN READ: Right at my fingertips. The Norvasc patent expiration basically is done, other than three markets, Canada, Japan and Italy. Japan and Italy will go in late -- Japan will go in September of '08, Italy will go in March of '08, and Canada will go in September '10.   

SCOTT BRAUNSTEIN: Thanks so much. I appreciate it; appreciate all the disclosure.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you. And Scott, as I'm sure you know, the declines that we experience when products go off patent internationally are much more gradual than what we experience in the United States, as I'm sure you know. Next question, please.   

OPERATOR: Harlan Sonderling, Columbia Management.   

HARLAN SONDERLING, ANALYST, COLUMBIA MANAGEMENT: My question is about the $5 billion addition to the share repurchase authorization. That compares with 10 billion that you accomplished in '07, and a five-year average prior to that of 7 billion. I'm curious to know whether you're just taking it less at a time now, or whether this is more of a husbanding of cash for future corporate activity, please.   

JEFF KINDLER: Frank will take that one.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: A couple of comments on this one. First, in '07, we bought $10 billion of our shares. You need to remember we had cash in '07 from the sale of the Consumer Healthcare business in 2006. So we had a lot of cash, much of which we used in 2007 to do share buybacks.   

In terms of going forward, Harlan, our focus has been, continues to be, on delivering total shareholder return. If you look at the share purchase program, it's a new program; it's open-ended, so there's no timeframe for completion relative to the $5 billion. We will be opportunistic relative to how we deploy capital, including share buybacks.   

The other thing to remember is when we look at total shareholder return, another major element of that is the dividend. We increased our dividend in 2008 by 10%. We have said it would be moderated versus prior-year increases, but 10%, versus 21% and 26% in '07 and '06, respectively. So, a very large increase. That absolute number, by the way, on the dividend now is give or take $8.5 billion. So, lots of capital being deployed in the area of total shareholder return.   

And then finally, to your point, there's lots of opportunities for us to deploy capital beyond dividends and beyond share buybacks, whether it be with internal investments or external investments. And we're factoring all of that into how we deploy our capital. But hopefully we're demonstrating no change in terms of our focus on delivering total shareholder return.   

HARLAN SONDERLING: Thank you, and my compliments on the additional disclosures as well in the release.   

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold,  Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I wanted to ask you about Chantix. You had indicated in your opening remarks that you have incorporated the recent neuropsychiatric warning in your guidance for '08. But could you give us a little bit more detail on the percentage of the target market that either has a pre-existing psych illness, or may exhibit some of the neuropsychiatric symptoms that are mentioned in the label? And as you look at your patient [use of] the last 12 months, how does that differ from the percentage of the target market, if you will? How much swing might be in the forecast, whether -- in regards to the impact that this might have?   

JEFF KINDLER: I'll let Ian respond.   

IAN READ: I'll have to get back to you. I don't have the split of the target marketplace between those conditions. I would like to say that the important thing about his label change is that it does allow a dialogue between patient and physician, and that medium-term, long-term is very good for the product. The physicians -- our research has shown in the last two months, given the fact that most of this information, or all of it, was already updated in our label in November, physicians continue to see a very strong benefit through the use of Chantix. So we will continue to promote Chantix, both to physicians and patients, and believe this label change in that context is manageable.   

JEFF KINDLER: Let me just add two things to that. First I want to mention that we have been in dialogue with the European regulators on the label as well, and we expect shortly to have a communication in which a similar label in Europe is adopted to the one we have here in the United States. I just thought I'd just add my perspective to this for a second, if I could.   

This is a really -- a very unusual situation, from my point of view. The benefits of this drug are really quite extraordinary for individual patients and for public health when you consider the hundreds of thousands of people that die every year from smoking-related illnesses. And there are many, many patients that have and will obtain the benefit of this drug. But as Ian says, there's also a great value in enhancing patient/physician communications about potential side effects of this or any other drug. So I think this is a really powerful opportunity to make a big difference in public health. And from everything we can tell, the physicians understand these tremendous benefits and are well prepared to have these good dialogues with their patients. And in the long run, I think, this is going to be a terrific drug, not just for  Pfizer but, frankly, for public health.   

Could I have the next question please?   

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.   

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: Can you provide additional perspective on your December 21st release relative to the additional data with regard to dalbavancin and the issue of non-inferiority trial designs? What is the FDA asking, and what do you need to do to get dalbavancin approved? Thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: Martin Mackay, our Head of R&D, will take that question.   

MARTIN MACKAY: Just briefly, Steve, there's nothing new to disclose from November 21st. We will provide additional data to the FDA. We're working with the Agency to respond to the requirements, and it's simply too early to say if we will need additional trials or, in fact, timing of the approval.   

OPERATOR: James Kelly,  Goldman Sachs.

JAMES KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just a little more follow-up on Chantix and the size of the patient opportunity, and what you've learned since the launch on this product. First, in the US, you mentioned that 5 million patients had tried it. Do you have any sense, Ian, on what is the real addressable market of people who might consider trying pharmacotherapy in the US, and the number of people who might be returning to it? And then also just over in Europe, a place where we don't have a lot of visibility, though do see a lot of news around inability to smoke in certain public places emerging around Europe, any news there on reimbursement and how the product is being adopted in Europe? Thank you.   

IAN READ: In the US, we're probably talking about something like 50 million smokers as a potential target. You could segment them into four segments. Probably two of them or more immediately [are eligible or incentivated] to look for treatments. That's about 25 million patients that we think are seekers of treatments and alternatives. The other 25 million are probably more of a medium to longer-term market development opportunity.   

Vis-a-vis Europe, you are correct; there is less of a culture of smoking ban. It's beginning to get traction in Europe. The UK has it. Ireland has it. I believe Spain is moving towards that, as is France, Sweden. And as those bans come in place, it creates a lot more sort of a (inaudible) marketplace for us. So the product is doing well where we have reimbursement, Sweden and the UK, and reimbursement is beginning to get traction alongside the smoking ban. I would look at international markets as a medium-term development opportunity for Chantix. And Asia (multiple speakers)   

JEFF KINDLER: I was about to say let's not forget Asia. That's a huge opportunity for us as well. Thank you. Next question.   

OPERATOR: Mike Krensavage,  Raymond James & Associates.

MIKE KRENSAVAGE, ANALYST,  RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: I was wondering why you cut the cash flow target by $1 billion. I know you mentioned timing of payments, but what payments, and how has the timing changed? Thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: As long as you're not from the IRS, Frank will answer that question.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: Let me make a couple of points on this. The second point I make I'll answer the question specifically. Just one thing in terms of if you look at the rhythm of the numbers in terms of the cash flow we're generating from operations, for 2007 we had guidance out there of 12 to 13 billion. And we said we'd be at or above that guidance range. So call it close to that range.   

For 2008 the previous guidance was 18 to 19 billion. We lowered it to 17 to 18 billion, but higher than what we had done in 2007. It's really driven by some assumptions we had made relative to estimated payments relative to taxes. In terms of when we would make those payments, the size of those payments, and quite frankly, our estimates in terms of the guidance we just updated, first estimates that were made previously changed. And those changes relative to the timing of those payments is what had us change our guidance and take it down.   

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.   

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thanks very much. Just a quick question. I was hoping that you could give us a little bit of context in the current economic environment. Copays have been going up. There's more branded drugs on tier 3. And I'm just wondering what we've seen historically the last time we went through a recession. What happened to IMS prescription trends? And do you have an overall view into your business that characterizes the impact of an economic environment in tier 3 access? Thank you.   

IAN READ: Good question. Obviously, our data shows that as (technical difficulty) tier 3, or even if they're on tier 2 and copays increase, it is not positive for scripts or scripts being filled. So that would indicate that we would see [a more] difficult environment. But on the other hand, you have the sort of positive impacts of Part D and government programs. And so I think right now it's well-balanced in that context. So, I don't see a material impact in '08 for those trends.   

OPERATOR: David Risinger,  Merrill Lynch.

DAVID RISINGER: It's my impression that Lipitor is a very low-tax product. And so I was wondering if you could confirm that the tax rate on Lipitor profits are below the corporate average? And if so, how should we think about its impact on the tax rate of the Company when Lipitor goes generic early in the next decade? Thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: We don't really provide that information regarding each individual product. Different products have different tax rates in different parts of the world, and they aggregate into the corporate tax rate that we articulate. And that's constantly monitored [and an] event that we look at. And we look for opportunities to deal with it and report our aggregate tax rate. Next question, please.   

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.   

STEVE SCALA: Again on ENHANCE, you said a couple of times that it's simply too early to assess the impact of the study. But, can you or have you already changed your marketing tactics in response to this data? Are your reps out talking about ENHANCE, and perhaps drawing parallels to the REVERSAL study? Or are you engaging in any other tactic using this data?   

JEFF KINDLER: The short answer is our reps are out there promoting the advantages of Lipitor and the data that supports it. And we feel very strongly that that is the best way to position Lipitor, and they're out there doing that even as we speak. Did you want to add anything [to this, Ian]?   

IAN READ: It's consistent with the way we have always positioned Lipitor, that we have safety across the dose range, that we have LDL potency across the -- lowering across the range, and we have landmark trials. So, this sort of confirms and validates our positioning for Lipitor in the marketplace.   

OPERATOR: John Boris,  Bear Stearns.

JOHN BORIS: Thanks for taking the follow-up. Can you just comment on performance-based contract rebates? I think there were about 390 million in third quarter '07. Can you disclose what they were in the fourth quarter, and what percent of the rebates might be attributed to Lipitor? Thanks.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think the way I'll answer this is, overall rebates for the year, so total consolidated  Pfizer, were essentially flat, in fact, slightly down, on a year-over-year basis, I think I'd say point one. Point two, in terms of Lipitor, overall rebates were up. They're actually up year-over-year, call it by about 2%, is the way I would think about it. So overall, essentially flat; relative to Lipitor, up about 2% of revenue.   

JOHN BORIS: Thanks.   

JEFF KINDLER: John, does that help?   

JOHN BORIS: Can we get the absolute number in the quarter?   

FRANK D'AMELIO: The absolute number in the quarter, [2% or so]; call it a couple hundred million, approximately 200 million, I think.   

JOHN BORIS: 200 million?   

FRANK D'AMELIO: For Lipitor.   

JOHN BORIS: How about for the whole business?   

FRANK D'AMELIO: Overall, we'll need to get back to you on that.   

JOHN BORIS: Very good.   

JEFF KINDLER: Operator, are there any other calls in the queue?   

OPERATOR: There are no questions.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: (inaudible) if I may. John, overall for the Company [total year] (inaudible) essentially flat. Think about it in kind of the mid single-digit range, about mid single-digits.   

JEFF KINDLER: John, I hope you heard that. Thank you, everybody, for joining us today. Have a good afternoon.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080130e41n000ul
  


 HD
 Q3  2007  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
10,856 words
   PD
18 October 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Mr. Amal Naj, Senior Vice President of Investor Development, you may begin your conference.   

AMAL NAJ, SVP OF INVESTOR DEVELOPMENT,  PFIZER INC.: Good afternoon and thank you for joining our third-quarter 2007 analyst conference call. I'm here with Jeff Kindler, Chairman and CEO; David Shedlarz, Vice Chairman; Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer; and other members of our senior management team.   

   TD
We will first review the results of the latest quarter, presented in the earnings release issued this morning and available on our website. In a change of practice, we will present financial charts on the call, which can be viewed on our homepage at   www.pfizer.com   in the Investor Presentations tab by clicking on the link Quarterly Corporate Performance, Third Quarter 2007.   

We will take questions after the review of our results. In order to facilitate the maximum number of questions, we would appreciate if you would limit yourself to just one question per person. And time permitting, we will come back to you for any follow-up questions you might have.   

I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in  Pfizer's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.   

Also, the discussions during this call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliations of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in  Pfizer's current Report on Form 8-K dated October 18, 2007. These reports are available on our website at   www.pfizer.com   in the Investors -- SEC Filings section.   

Now I would like to turn the call over to Jeff Kindler. Jeff?   

JEFF KINDLER, CHAIRMAN AND CEO,  PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Amal, and good afternoon, everyone. I would like to welcome Frank to his first earnings call at  Pfizer. In just the few weeks that Frank has been here, he has already added tremendous value to the Company.   

I would like to comment briefly on our quarterly results, as well as some of the steps that we are taking to rebuild  Pfizer and put the Company on the right track for the future.   

We are continuing to make the tough decisions and take the right actions that are necessary to address our challenges and seize our opportunities. Between now and 2011, we need to continue to improve all of the foundational elements of our Company, and we need to continue to optimize our current performance, even as we focus on the critical factors necessary to reset the Company strategically and rationally for when Lipitor goes off patent.   

There are no quick fixes, but rather a series of actions which brick by brick are putting in place the foundation we need for a successful future. We are moving with a sense of urgency, but at the same time, we must be disciplined in how we allocate our capital in order to maximize the strategic and financial returns to our shareholders.   

With that background, let me highlight a few important aspects of this quarter -- first, our operational performance; second, our decision to stop selling Exubera; third, our continuing progress in reducing our cost structure; fourth, our commitment to substantially enhance our talent pool by putting strong leaders from inside and outside the Company in key positions; and fifth, our establishment of more focused and accountable business units to drive improved performance.   

First, operationally, we had a solid third quarter. We are reconfirming our revenue and adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance for 2007 and 2008. Indeed, we are raising the lower end of the ranges we previously provided for revenues and adjusted diluted EPS for 2007.   

I think it's worth noting that we are on track this year to achieve roughly the same revenues as last year and better adjusted income than last year, despite the loss of exclusivity on two major drugs, Norvasc and Zoloft, and despite the intense challenges facing our largest product. This is due to the strong performance of most of our products, substantial progress in our cost reduction efforts, and the benefits of favorable foreign exchange. Our operational performance, in my view, reflects our insistence on a higher level of focus and accountability within the Company, the advantages of our broadly diversified portfolio, and the benefits of our continued actions to improve productivity. These attributes are an important part of the solid foundation that we are building for the future.   

With the obvious exception of Exubera, our new products performed very well this quarter. Lyrica grew 37% to $465 million compared to the same period last year, and it has delivered $1.3 billion in revenues year to date. In June, the FDA granted accelerated approval to Lyrica for the treatment of fibromyalgia, which more than doubles the potential number of U.S. patients who could benefit from this medicine. We were in the field in record time to take advantage of that opportunity.   

Chantix, our treatment to aid smoking cessation, continues its strong performance, with $241 million in revenues for the quarter and more than $600 million in revenues year to date. Since the August 2006 launch in the U.S., more than 3.5 million smokers have been prescribed Chantix, and we just launched a branded advertising campaign to build on this momentum. When you consider the many countries in Europe and Asia where smoking is still very prevalent, the global opportunities for Chantix are significant.   

For the year to date, Celebrex is up 10% worldwide and 7% in a U.S. market that is basically flat. Geodon is growing at a rate of two times the market for atypical antipsychotics. And during the quarter, we launched a new Viagra advertising campaign that has generated a lot of interest and positive feedback from the field.   

We are also continuing to bring strong and creative support to Lipitor, which is facing a commercial assault unprecedented in our industry's history. With new indications and data, advertising and field force support, and contracting strategies to optimize Tier 2 access, we are fighting back hard against branded and generic competition, focusing on both new patients and the switch market. In the face of these challenges, Lipitor revenues in the quarter were $3.2 billion as compared to $3.3 billion in the third quarter last year.   

Now I would like to address a second key aspect of the quarter, our decision to stop further investment in Exubera. This decision reflects our strict adherence to three fundamental principles which will continue to guide us going forward -- we will be realistic; we will listen to our customers; and we will be very disciplined in how we evaluate both internal and external investments so that we can put our capital to work in support of our best opportunities to create shareholder value.   

Pfizer began the development program for Exubera in collaboration with  Nektar Therapeutics over a decade ago. We launched it in July 2006 and made a major effort to make it successful. But despite the best efforts of our sales, marketing and manufacturing colleagues, the product has simply not gained the acceptance of patients and physicians. Accordingly, we will over the next three months support doctors in transitioning their patients to other medicines, and we will cease further investments in the development of a second-generation device.   

We will redeploy those colleagues in sales, marketing, medical and R&D who have dedicated themselves to this product to activities that are projected to generate higher returns, including important late-stage development projects, as well as stepped-up field force support for our in-line products. We will phase out those manufacturing activities that have been dedicated to Exubera. There are fewer opportunities for redeployment in manufacturing, and we will explore alternatives for sites and employees in consultation with works councils and other appropriate bodies. And we will, of course, carefully evaluate what happened here in order to ensure that we apply all the lessons learned to future product development and marketing.   

We remain committed to finding and developing new treatments for diabetes, which is an area of enormous unmet medical need. Our R&D portfolio in this field spans the width of the diabetes disease continuum, from genetic susceptibility at birth to the onset of devastating complications. This is also an important focus for business development. In addition, we will continue to closely monitor developments in medical practice and technology as they relate to inhalation therapies and other innovative delivery systems both for insulin and for other medicines.   

The third area I would like to highlight today is the progress we're making on reducing our cost structure. For this year, cost savings in the selling, informational and administrative expense component of adjusted income are ahead of plan. We are now projecting a decrease in these expenses of about $600 million on a constant currency basis.   

And we are continuing to take the necessary steps to meet our goal of reducing our total adjusted costs by at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion by 2008 compared to 2006 on a constant currency basis. The process of closing sites like Ann Arbor in R&D, and Brooklyn, Groton and Sandwich in manufacturing is on track, as is our Company-wide plan to reduce overall headcount by 10%. We're making solid progress in putting into place a much more flexible cost base that will more easily adapt to our changing business needs.   

As we do this, we are also placing a very strong emphasis on day-in, day-out productivity improvements across the entire Company. We recently announced that Nat Ricciardi, who has had significant success in this area as the leader of our manufacturing division, will lead an intensive enterprise-wide focus on continuous improvement.   

The fourth area I would like to highlight today is the steps we continue to take to enhance our leadership talent. We are continuing to put the best possible people from inside and outside the Company in critical leadership positions. As you know, this quarter, in addition to bringing Frank D'Amelio to the Company, we named Martin Mackay President of Pfizer Global Research & Development.   

After traveling with Martin to our R&D sites around the world last week, I can tell you that he enjoys the highest respect of our scientists. They fully understand and support his commitment to striking the right balance between stability, where that is appropriate, and change, where that is necessary. In R&D, as in all our activities, we need increased speed and focus, we need to exercise better discipline in picking the right programs to pursue, and we need to allocate our capital to disease areas with the strongest commercial potential.   

Our business development group, in close collaboration with R&D, will continue to seek opportunities to bring in high-potential programs and products from outside of our labs. And our research organization will continue to pursue the best possible scientific opportunities for the future, both inside and outside the Company.   

But Martin's single most important priority is taking the broad array of candidates in our late-stage pipeline and bringing them forward to the market as fast as possible. We have 47 compounds in Phase II in very promising therapeutic areas, the most in our history. We believe that we have the opportunity to have more Phase III starts next year than at any time in our history. Martin will focus in particular on advancing the most promising Phase II compounds, such as our JAK-3 inhibitor for rheumatoid arthritis and IGFR1, our monoclonal antibody for the potential treatment of common malignancies, including non-small-cell lung, breast, prostate and liver cancer.   

In another important disease area, just this week, our alpha-2 delta compound for the treatment of anxiety moved into Phase III, underscoring what we see as our competitive advantage in an area of science that has produced Neurontin and Lyrica.   

We have also, as you know, added an important new dimension to our research capabilities by establishing a biotherapeutics and bioinnovation center based in California and led by Dr. Corey Goodman, an enormously talented scientist who enjoys the highest respect of the worldwide scientific community. The center will pursue cutting-edge research that we expect will generate an additional cohort of drug candidates to take into the clinic, and from there to the marketplace.   

The fifth and final point I'd like to make this afternoon is that in this quarter, we have continued to see evidence that the organizational changes that we're making are leading to better execution and better results. For example, by breaking our U.S. business into five distinct and manageable units led by strong general managers, we have established smaller and more focused organizations, where everyone involved has a clear line of sight to results that they can affect and be held accountable for. The new structure has only been in place for six months, but it is already showing what it can do with our new products, like Lyrica and Chantix. And our U.S. field force, after a major reorganization, is leading our industry in call volumes, calls per rep, total details and details per rep.   

So, to recap, we're working with a sense of urgency and a single-minded focus to improve every aspect of our Company, from the way we work to the way we make decisions to the speed with which we operate to the way we allocate our owners' capital. These changes and others are establishing the necessary foundation for our future. They will ensure that we continue to improve the way in which we capitalize on topline opportunities, both internal and external; the way we achieve increased productivity; and the way that we will continue to improve our performance. All of this will drive the achievement of our ultimate goals -- putting  Pfizer on the right track, helping patients and enhancing the returns we deliver to our shareholders.   

And now, I would like to turn it over to Frank D'Amelio.   

FRANK D'AMELIO, CFO,  PFIZER INC.: Thanks, Jeff. Good day, everyone. Now to the financial results. The charts that I will be reviewing with you are included in our webcast and will help facilitate the discussion of our third-quarter results.   

Let me begin with the highlights of our performance. Today, we posted reported revenues for the third quarter of 2007 of $12 billion, a 2% decrease from the same quarter last year. The decline reflects the loss of U.S. exclusivity of Zoloft and Norvasc. Zoloft lost U.S. exclusivity in June 2006, but generic competition did not enter the marketplace until August of 2006, while Norvasc lost U.S. exclusivity in March of 2007, six months earlier than expected.   

In addition, Lipitor revenues declined modestly as the product continues to experience intense competition from branded and generic products in the statin market. On a positive note, our third-quarter revenues were favorably impacted by the strong results of our new products, as well as foreign exchange, which added approximately $300 million to our top line.   

Also from a comparison perspective, in the third quarter of 2006, we had a onetime reversal of a sales deduction accrual of approximately $170 million. This was due to a favorable development and a pricing dispute in the U.S., which we noted in the third quarter last year. Our reported net income of $761 million was down 77% from last year. Our reported diluted EPS of $0.11 was down 76% from last year's $0.46.   

Adjusted income was $4 billion, up 1% from the same period last year, and adjusted diluted EPS was up 7% to $0.58 from $0.54 last year. The sharp decline in third-quarter 2007 reported net income was primarily a result of the items impacting revenue that I just described, as well as $2.8 billion of pretax charges related to the write-off of intangibles, inventory and fixed assets associated with exiting Exubera, as well as the accrual of other exit costs, which I will discuss in more detail shortly.   

Also, reported net income and reported diluted EPS were negatively impacted by costs we incurred in connection with our cost reduction initiatives, including restructuring and implementation costs and creating a more efficient, effective and aligned global organization.   

On an adjusted basis, which is reported net income and diluted EPS, excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, our third-quarter earnings performance improved, despite the revenue decline, given our year-over-year decrease in our total costs, higher interest income and the favorable impact of foreign exchange. Adjusted diluted EPS was also favorably impacted by our share purchase program.   

Before moving on, let me point out several significant items that are included in our reported results for the third quarter. More detailed disclosures will be provided in our Form 10-Q filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

In the third quarter, we incurred $437 million in restructuring charges compared to $245 million last year. These costs are primarily associated with employee termination costs and asset impairments. Additionally, we incurred $373 million in implementation costs compared to $182 million last year. These costs are primarily associated with our sites that we will be closing and are reported in cost of sales, research and development, and SI&A expenses. These are more fully detailed the supplemental information that accompanies the earnings release.   

Specific cost reduction initiatives are varied and span most divisions, functions, markets and sites across  Pfizer. Broad categories of activity are sales force reductions, manufacturing and research site closures, and offshoring and outsourcing. We reduced our U.S. sales force by about 20% and are implementing similar reductions in most markets. Sales force restructurings have been completed in a host of other markets as well.   

We have announced the closure of nine manufacturing plants this year, most recently Sandwich, England, and six research sites. To date, all transactions are proceeding according to plan. Additionally, the vast majority of research programs and development projects has been transferred and stabilized to their new locations with minimal disruption. All impacted initiatives will be transferred by year end.   

Further, a wide array of offshoring and outsourcing opportunities are in various stages of implementation. Manufacturing, logistics, finance, facilities, medical, legal and IT are among the functions pursuing the financial and operational benefits of this strategy.   

Now, on to the $2.8 billion of pretax charges associated with the exit of Exubera, our inhaled insulin product. Our Exubera revenue performance to date has been disappointing. Our worldwide revenues were $7 billion in the third quarter 2007 and $12 million year to date. The performance of Exubera has led us to our decision to exit Exubera, which has resulted in pretax charges of $2.8 billion. These charges are comprised of various components, including approximately $1.1 billion of intangible assets from the acquisition of the rights to Exubera, $661 million of inventory, $454 million of fixed assets and $584 million of other exit costs.   

On the income statement, $2.6 billion of this charge is included in cost of sales, while the remainder is included in revenues, SI&A expenses and R&D expenses. The asset-related charges of approximately $2.2 billion represent noncash charges, while the other exit costs will results in future cash expenditures.   

In the financial schedule of the Company in our earnings release, we have provided our reported financial results. We have also provided for the first time a reconciliation of reported results to our adjusted results on a line-by-line basis.   

I would like to now provide further information on our adjusted results. Adjusted cost of sales as a percent of revenues was 15.1% compared to 15.4% in the same quarter of last year. However, for the full year, we expect adjusted cost of sales to rise to approximately 15.5% of revenues compared with our previous estimate of about 15%. The reason for this change is that a greater portion of our revenues and associated cost are being generated in international markets, 52% in the latest quarter versus 45% in the same quarter last year. Also, the portfolio is shifting to a mix of products with higher costs relative to the prior year.   

Adjusted SI&A expenses declined 1% from last year. This reflects our efforts to streamline the organization and improve operational efficiency. The level of decrease is partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. For the full year, on a constant currency basis, we now expect an adjusted SI&A reduction of about $600 million relative to the prior year versus our previous guidance of greater than $500 million.   

Adjusted R&D expenses for the third quarter declined 5% from last year, also due primarily to our efforts to improve operational efficiencies. We continue to project the full-year 2007 adjusted R&D expenses to be approximately $7.5 billion.   

Our effective tax rate on adjusted income for the quarter was approximately 22%. We continue to project 22% for the full year 2007.   

On a year-to-date basis, many of the changes in the first nine months of 2007 compared to 2006 are consistent with those previously described related to the quarter -- loss of U.S. exclusivity, strong new product growth, the benefits of our efforts to streamline the organization and improve operational efficiency, increased interest income and favorable foreign exchange. Adjusted R&D expenses, however, increased 5%, primarily as a result of our collaboration with  Bristol-Myers Squibb to develop and commercialize apixaban. Adjusted cost of sales increased 6% as a result of changing geographic and product mix.   

I would also like to highlight the performance of selected products. First, Lipitor -- Lipitor worldwide revenues for the quarter were down 5% compared to the same period last year. Revenues in the U.S. declined 13%, while revenues in international markets increased 9%. In the U.S., revenues declined as a result of intense competition and payer pressure. Of the 9% increase internationally, 6% is due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange and the remainder to operating growth. Overall, we do expect full-year revenues to fall within the range of a 3% to 5% decline from 2006.   

As you can see, all the key in-line products posted positive results in the third quarter compared to the same period last year. I would also like to emphasize the strong growth being delivered by our key new products. Chantix, our smoking cessation treatment, posted revenues of $241 million compared with $33 million a year ago. Revenues of Lyrica, our medicine for the management of neuropathic pain and most recently fibromyalgia, increased 37% to $465 million. And revenues of Sutent, our product for advanced kidney and cancer of the digestive system were $151 million compared with $63 million last year.   

Now as to Zoloft and Norvasc, you can see the sharp drop in revenues in the third quarter, a 73% drop for Zoloft and a 47% drop for Norvasc following the loss of U.S. exclusivity. Excluding Zoloft and Norvasc, worldwide pharmaceutical revenues would have increased 5%.   

As you can see in our earnings release, we have made some changes in our 2007 financial guidance. I have already discussed our 2007 guidance related to Lipitor revenues, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues, SI&A expenses and R&D expenses.   

We previously projected revenues of $47 billion to $48 billion for 2007. We are now improving the range to $47.5 billion to $48 billion as we move closer to year end. On reported diluted EPS for the full year, we previously said $1.30 to $1.41. Given the charges associated with exiting Exubera, we have now lowered the range to $1.01 to $1.10. On adjusted diluted EPS for the full year, we previously said $2.08 to $2.15. We are now improving the range to $2.10 to $2.15. Guidance remains unchanged for other items, effective tax rate on adjusted income and cash flows from operations.   

Lastly, in the area of our stock buyback program, we previously said that we would purchase up to $10 billion of our stock in 2007, and that remains our expectation. To date, we have purchased $7.5 billion of our stock in 2007 for a total of approximately 291 million shares.   

Now on to 2008 guidance -- our previously issued guidance remains unchanged except for our target to reduce our adjusted total costs. We previously projected that we would achieve an absolute cost reduction of at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion compared to 2006. We now expect to achieve this target, but at constant exchange rates. This is reflective of the extent to which our expenses have been adversely impacted by foreign exchange. The strengthening of the euro and other currencies relative to the dollar is partially offsetting savings from our cost reduction initiatives.   

So to summarize the key takeaways for the quarter, we are on track to achieve our 2007 revenue and adjusted diluted EPS guidance. We have raised the lower end of the range and our guidance for both 2007 revenues and adjusted diluted EPS. Additionally, we have reaffirmed our 2008 guidance, but have now stated that our 2008 total cost reduction of at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion as compared to 2006 is at constant exchange rates.   

We recorded $2.8 billion of pretax charges associated with the exit of Exubera. These charges relate to the write-off of certain assets, as well as the accrual of other exit costs, which resulted in a $0.31 reduction in reported diluted EPS for the third quarter. Our new products, particularly Chantix, Lyrica and Sutent, are performing extremely well, and our largest product, Lipitor, continues to do well, considering the intense competition and payer pressure.   

Lastly, on our cost reduction initiatives, we continue to make progress to reduce our overall cost base and improve our operational efficiency. We recognize we've made significant progress to date and that there is more to do in order to achieve our overall objectives.   

With that, I'd like to turn it back to Jeff.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you very much, Frank, and we are now ready to take your questions.   

OPERATOR: (technical difficulty) Anderson, Sanford Bernstein.   

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. I have a couple questions. The first, actually, just goes back to your earlier announcement of the biotherapeutics center that you are going to establish on the West Coast. I'm wondering if this is going to be a bricks-and-mortar facility and if you'll actually go so far as to make it a research site or designate a separate pool of funds for things like acquisitions.   

And then the second question, and sorry if this is too blunt, but any comments about  Biogen Idec being for sale and whether this is something that  Pfizer would potentially consider?   

JEFF KINDLER: First, with regard to biotherapeutics, we're starting with the facility that we already have in San Francisco called Rinat, which as you may know, it was the neuroscience spinoff from  Genentech and has really done quite well, and we're very excited about some of the opportunities that we have there. Dr. Goodman is going to initially start with that base, and we are in the process of developing the future business plans.   

But I think you can look forward to our creating, hopefully, a network of organizations without a significant investment in bricks and mortar, because I don't think that will be necessary. It will be a very integrated approach to business development that involves both what Corey Goodman is leading, as well as what Martin Mackay and Ed Harrigan in our business development group is leading. So stay tuned, and we will be talking about further plans as we go forward, but that's how we are starting.   

With regard to  Biogen Idec, obviously we don't comment on that kind of speculation, so I won't surprise you in that regard. But I just have to say we will always keep our eyes and ears open to any means to build our business through alliances, licensing or acquisitions. And when the right opportunities present themselves, we will act appropriately. But we really want to be disciplined in how we allocate our capital and we want to be thoughtful about that. And so we look at all these opportunities from that perspective. We're going to focus first on product potential, especially where there are gaps in our therapeutic areas. We will focus secondly on expanding our platform potential, such as new ways to deliver therapies. And as I said, the most important consideration here is to ensure that we deploy our capital in the best possible ways to create opportunities for creating shareholder value.   

OPERATOR: John Boris,  Bear Stearns.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Thanks for taking my questions. To your point, Jeff, on capital allocation, it appears that with $7.5 billion of shares repurchased, then you completing the $10 billion share repurchase, also with the dividend increases that we have seen over the last couple of years -- I think two years ago it was a 27% increase, 21% increase last year -- and then on business development, can you just take us through how you're thinking about those three elements going forward? And then I just have a follow-up on some operational questions on Lipitor and Exubera.   

JEFF KINDLER: John, why don't I let Frank start that, and we will see if that addresses your questions.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: Sure. On the dividend, let me start by saying as a company, we have been committed to total shareholder value. Going forward, we will continue to be committed to total shareholder value.   

In terms of the numbers, John, let me just run the numbers for you. Two years ago, the dividend was $0.76. This year, it is $1.16, so it has increased 53% over the last two years. It was 32% in '06, 21% in '07. Going forward, for the '08 dividend, we will announce that dividend in December of this year for the upcoming year, as has been our practice in the past.   

JEFF KINDLER: Buybacks?   

FRANK D'AMELIO: On buybacks, we announced this year repurchases of up to $10 billion. At the end of the quarter, we had repurchased $7.5 billion worth of our shares, 291 million shares. We're clearly on a path to achieve the $10 billion, up to $10 billion in repurchases. Once again, in terms of what we will do going forward, in January, we will announce our 2008 buyback program, as has been customary.   

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, John, your second question?   

JOHN BORIS: Yes, just on operations, on Exubera, can you just comment on the sales reps or the detail effort that you had behind the brand and how you're going to be reallocating that important resource going forward?   

And then I think I recall that there was a manufacturing facility in Germany that went along with your acquisition of the rights of -- full rights on Exubera. What are you going to be doing with that?   

And then on Lipitor, just on the trends on Lipitor, it seems like the four-week average trends on PRX is, the growth is minus 15%. If you look at it by dosage form, the 10mg is declining 19%, 20mg down 14%, 40mg is down 7%, and your 80mg is up 1%. You are aggressively doing a lot of direct-to-consumer advertising, but it doesn't seem to be addressing the growth issue that you have within the U.S. Can you just talk about when you might be anticipating seeing stabilization of those trends in the United States?   

JEFF KINDLER: Let me start with the first part of your question and then I'll ask Ian to address the Lipitor. We are going to redeploy the vast majority of the affected colleagues in commercial, medical and R&D functions, and there will be no reductions in the U.S. field force. We're going to redeploy people in those groups I mentioned to support projects and products that have, we hope, greater commercial potential.   

Now, in manufacturing, the opportunities for redeployment are frankly fewer, and they depend on the ultimate role for the impacted sites, including the one you mentioned. So we will be exploring alternatives for those sites and their employees in consultation with works councils and other appropriate bodies.   

Ian, do you want to address the questions about Lipitor?   

JOHN BORIS: But will you be shutting that facility?   

JEFF KINDLER: Well, as I said, we have to look at that in connection with, in consultation with works councils.   

IAN READ, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS,  PFIZER INC.: So I'd like to give a little more color to Frank's comments on Lipitor. So we were down about 13% in the U.S. on scripts. The pricing and rebates were basically a wash, given the fact that we had a favorable settlement in the third quarter of '06, which basically offset our favorable pricing impact for the quarter.   

You know, if you're looking at Lipitor, I think you've got to go back and look back and discuss how we look at the market and how we see what's happening. On the switch loss, we appear to have stabilized that at about a 50% below the peak, post the advent of multigeneric simvastatin. In fact, we're now at the pre-multi-simvastatin level. New patient population is fluctuating, or new patient volume is fluctuating at around a 20% share.   

I'd like to indicate I feel we're very competitive against the branded statins in this marketplace, and our access remains strong. Our access remains in the range of 65 to 70 at Tier 2 across the commercial and Medicare lives. And we see the market, while slowing up from 12-plus growth rate to about high single digits coming out of this year, and I see that being maintained in '08.   

So our strategy is to continue using our commercial resources to focus on the switch, the new patients and maintaining access. And as you noted, those strategies are being applied again on the professional platform to differentiate Lipitor, on the efficacy across the dosage range on safety and outcomes, a very strong DTC platform using print and using the Jarvik ad, which is one of our best ads for Lipitor. We're also looking at using those resources and targeting those states where we see the most activity on generic switching. And we're also using things like value cards to deal with copays. And that's the environment we see going forward for Lipitor.   

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin,  Morgan Stanley.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I've got a few questions. Frank, this might be unfair, since you are still new, but based on the guidance next year, which doesn't appear to have meaningfully changed at all, the expectation for cost reduction of $1.5 billion to $2 billion hasn't changed and you've given a pretty wide range of EPS and a relatively wide range in terms of the top line. But if I assume sort of a middle of the range on revenues, I've got to assume a significant decline in both SG&A and R&D just to get to the bottom end of the range next year.   

So I am wondering if I -- I appreciate you can't give a lot of detail yet on 2008, but you have offered this guidance. Am I thinking directionally in the right way, that we haven't seen yet big year-over-year declines in those expense areas? And again, just get to the lower end of the range, I've got to assume big year-over-year declines. That's my first question.   

Second question is, just interested in the Exubera announcement today. You're also disbanding your research on second-generation Exubera, which I thought was interesting. And I'm wondering if you could comment on why you think it was such -- why you're stopping development of the second-generation insulin device. It seems to me that one of the biggest issues was the device itself. The second-generation device was a nifty little thing that should be an easier sell. I'm just wondering if you could comment on why you have chosen to scrap the whole development plan, if you think it's more than just the device, if it has to do with just the overall acceptance of pulmonary insulin.   

And my third question relates to an update on the Lipitor 993 patent, if you could tell us where that sits now with the Patent and Trade Office.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Jami. We're doing great on our one question per --   

JAMI RUBIN: Sorry.   

JEFF KINDLER: -- caller here, but they're all good questions. So I'll let Frank take the first, Ian take the second, and Allen Waxman will take the third.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: Let me address the first question. I know you were focusing in on the level of cost reduction for '08. Let me start with '07, and then what I'll do is after I start with '07, give some statistics, I will bridge to '08, and then I will try to frame that into the overall '08 guidance.   

We are making good progress on our cost reduction initiatives. In fact, in SI&A in 2007, we increased the guidance from $500 million to $600 million. That was for the SI&A element of our overall costs only. If you think about some of the things we're doing just operationally to demonstrate progress, you can bucket most of our cost reduction initiatives into five categories -- field force reductions, manufacturing site closures, research site closures, outsourcing and offshoring.   

Let me just give you one statistic on each, and then I will move to 2008. In the field force, as I mentioned before, we've implemented 20% reductions in the U.S. and similar reductions in many markets outside of the U.S. In manufacturing sites alone, we've announced nine exits this year. In R&D, we've announced six exits. In terms of outsourcing, we've outsourced some of our IT operations. In terms of outsourcing and offshoring, we have outsourced and offshored some of our financial back-office operations.   

And terming it kind of as a macrostatistic, at the end of last year we had 98,000 employees. We had announced a 10,000-employee reduction. At the end of this past quarter, we were at about 87,000. So I frame that just to give you a feel for we're making a lot of progress relative to the area of cost reduction.   

Now, let's take that and move into 2008. We have I will call it a relatively wide range out there for 2008, but in terms of where we fall in the range, there's a lot of moving parts still relative to 2008. We're still very much in our planning process. We're comfortable enough at a macro level to reaffirm the guidance we provided on the various elements. We updated or slightly modified the $1.5 billion to $2 billion at constant currency, given some of the things that are going on with dollar relative to other currencies. But I think, you know, we have reaffirmed the range. We have reaffirmed the guidance. We've got some ranges out there, and we will be back in January to update the guidance.   

JEFF KINDLER: Ian, do you want to talk about the second-generation (multiple speakers)   

IAN READ: Well, Jami, I think, to your question, when we look at the marketplace, there are two barriers, I think. We clearly underestimated the barrier to moving patients or the physician community earlier to Exubera. I think this is one of the major issues we underestimated -- the resistance from physicians and patients to going onto Exubera -- going onto insulin in any form earlier than they have been to date. So that is one major barrier.   

The second one is, per se, the burden that the Exubera technology represented to the practice, which went from the lung function testing, the training on the device, and while the size of the device may have been a component of that, I think you have to look at the totality of it. And that's what led us to our decision to exit.   

JEFF KINDLER: Alan, do you want to talk about the patent?   

ALLEN WAXMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL,  PFIZER INC.: Jami, you referred to the '993. I assume you're conflating the '995 and the '893. Actually, both are before the Patent Office as we speak. As I think you may know, in August we received comment from the Patent Office on our '995 [enamener] patent that was in the form of an initial rejection, which is typically the way these things come out. We have filed a response to those comments, and that will continue to work its way through the Patent Office over the next year or 18 months. It can be a lengthy process.   

The '893 is the subject of a reexamination request by a law firm associated with Ranbaxy. That request has been granted, as is the norm, and we will wait to hear from the Patent Office. And again, typically a response can be in the form of an initial rejection of some of the claims. We'll have an opportunity to respond to that. And that will, too, work its way through the Patent Office in what can be a lengthy process.   

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.   

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: How would you characterize generic simvastatin relative to its ultimate market share? Do feel it's nearly fully penetrated, 50% penetrated or some other estimate? And within your overall 2008 P&L guidance, what are the expectations for Lipitor's trend? And then lastly, given the apparent success of your competitors in developing a CEPT inhibitor without hypertension, are you reconsidering starting your efforts on your follow-ons to torcetrapib?   

JEFF KINDLER: I will ask Ian to answer the first two question, and Martin Mackay will answer the third.   

IAN READ: So, I will take the second part first, which is Lipitor inside the overall business. When we look at the guidance we gave on the revenue, we looked at a lot of our major products, and we took both the opportunities and challenges of those products to get to the macro level. So I think we expressed our judgment and we reflect that through the balance of all the portfolio.   

On simvastatin, we've got a year and a half. We're coming up to the year review. I am seeing a sort of, at least on the access side, a stabilization of our access. I think we have got to look at how Lipitor continues to be competitive against Crestor and Vytorin. And we'll see how it goes forward. Maybe simvastatin will continue to make some further marginal gains, but it's going to via market pressure and not major contracting changes.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Ian. Martin, CETP inhibitors?   

MARTIN MACKAY, PRESIDENT, PFIZER GLOBAL RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT,  PFIZER INC.: Just briefly, Steve, we're still currently reviewing the torcetrapib data and going through that carefully. We will present some of this work at the American Heart Association in November and lay out the studies that we have done in that regard. We have no plans at this stage to begin our -- restart our CETP inhibitor program until we've thoroughly reviewed all those results. And obviously I can't comment on the Merck programs.   

OPERATOR: David Risinger,  Merrill Lynch.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks very much.   

JEFF KINDLER: Is that the same persons as David Risinger?   

DAVID RISINGER: Yes. So I'll just keep it to two questions. First, in terms of the losses on Exubera, obviously dropping Exubera will be accretive. Is there any way, Frank, that you can frame for us how accretive it will be for you to drop Exubera?   

And second, I was hoping that you could talk about your biotech and vaccine transaction agenda. This is something that  Pfizer has talked about for a long time. There have been relatively few transactions to date, and I believe that  Pfizer's commitment is still there. But in the meantime, acquisition target prices are rising. And so it would be helpful for you, Jeff, to maybe address that.   

:   

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, thanks. Frank, go   

FRANK D'AMELIO: On the first part of the question, I think the simplest way to think about this is Exubera's sales for the year were very, very modest, as I mentioned, $7 million in the quarter, $12 million year to date, so really no impact on our margins.   

JEFF KINDLER: Dave, with regard to biotherapeutics, clearly you're right -- the deal environment is challenging. There's a relatively finite number of assets, especially in the later stages, and the prices are clearly quite high. We feel that there's still a lot of opportunities out there if we take a thoughtful and disciplined approach to it and possibly through creative deal structures and the like. Obviously, I'm not going to comment on any particular transactions we might be considering, but there has been activity in that area and there will continue to be. And we have to strike the balance between our desire and need to supplement our internal portfolio, which we clearly recognize, but at the same time exercise discipline to ensure that we make smart investments that will pay well for the shareholders. That's not an easy thing to do in this environment, but we're going to keep at it.   

DAVID RISINGER: Just to follow up, Frank, obviously in dropping Exubera, you're dropping a lot of costs in manufacturing and promotion, so won't that be accretive?   

FRANK D'AMELIO: In terms of '07, it's almost November already, right? So, I mean, there isn't a whole lot of the fiscal year left, and clearly decisions and implications will factor into the updated guidance we gave. In terms of 2008, once again, there's many factors that impact the guidance, which is part of why we have the range we have. All of that clearly factored into the update we've provided today on 2008.   

OPERATOR: Roopesh Patel,  UBS.

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST,  UBS: I have a couple of questions on Celebrex. I'm actually curious about the Company's strategy on Celebrex here for the U.S. market in the context of the two price increases taken over a six-month period totaling 12%. I know that this was highlighted as one product area where you wanted to resume market share growth. Are you satisfied with how things have turned out?   

And then separately, if you could also help us frame the opportunity for Celebrex in Japan, that would be very helpful.   

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Roopesh, I will turn both those questions over to Ian.   

IAN READ: So I think if you step back and look at it, Celebrex clearly offers value to patients, and that is reflected in the way we are commercializing the product this year. The market growth is anemic, and we are still focused on re-establishing market growth and script growth for Celebrex. To get to that, we need to deal, first of all, with the CV issue and put it in perspective, and we are leading with that in our discussions with physicians, both with the field force and with medical to medical and through DTC.   

When we ran the DTC over this issue in the second quarter, we did see a response in market share. We will be back in the end of the fourth quarter and first quarter heavily on this area in DTC to sort of re-establish the growth trend on scripts for Celebrex. So the strategy still is focused on re-establishing growth in scripts for Celebrex.   

JEFF KINDLER: Japan?   

IAN READ: Vis-a-vis Japan, we're working through indications and registrations in Japan, and when that is complete, I think we also have to work through pricing, and depending upon that, we can get to the opportunity in Japan.   

OPERATOR: George Grofik,  Citigroup.

GEORGE GROFIK, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking my question. Looking at 2008, can you give us a sense for the Part D pricing environment and to what degree you may have seen more pressure in that business relative to 2007?   

Secondly, in the past several weeks, the cholesterol market growth has slowed to mid-single digits. And can you provide some color on what you believe is causing that slowdown and what you anticipate will reinvigorate growth in the market, to your expectation of high single digits? Thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, George. I'll let Ian take both of those.   

IAN READ: So, George, the -- remind me of the first question again, sorry?   

JEFF KINDLER: Part D next year.   

GEORGE GROFIK: Part D, well, I think we've discussed this on previous calls. Clearly, the land grab was made early on, and Part D is becoming more competitive and the negotiations will be more competitive. So there is more pressure vis-a-vis the net access and rebates, and I expect that to be reflected in '08.   

And secondly, the question of the slow-up in the market, I don't have any specific data. Anecdotally from distributors and people we speak to, it may be an issue of the donut hole and some resistance as seniors get close to that, may be causing a slow-up. So my belief is that we can expect high single digits for the statin market in '08.   

OPERATOR: Tony Butler,  Lehman Brothers.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Jeff, just a little bit of a macro question, and that is, having been in the seat now for roughly 13 months, you've been very rapid for some change in your management team. You've been very rapid to execute some cost reduction, and in my opinion, at least to refocus the culture at  Pfizer over that span of time. What's the next 12 months holding for you and what are your true objectives over this very finite period of time, if you could? Thanks.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Tony. I think that's a great question and I'm glad you asked it. I think what I'd start by saying is that when I started in this job and our current team started in this job, it was very clear to us that this business needed to be fixed in a lot of ways. We needed to get down to the foundation of this Company and rebuild some basic elements of it brick by brick.   

I would say just to use as examples four big areas that we've been addressing with a great deal of intensity are, first of all, focus on accountability that required both changes in the culture, but also organizational changes that I have talked a lot about; second, improving our leadership cadre, which I've talked about; third, a disciplined approach to capital allocation and prioritizing our investments, starting to get into the habit of understanding that we can't be all things to all people, we can't do everything we would like to do and we have to focus our investments where they provide the greatest opportunities -- that's a bit of a change for us, quite frankly; and fourth, improving our cost base, making it more flexible and instilling a culture of productivity.   

All of this is foundational. I think we've made a lot of progress, but I will tell you I don't think we're by any means done. We have a lot more to do in this regard. In order to establish ourselves for the future, we have to have the foundation right. This is tough work and there's no quick fixes. I think we're making a lot of progress, as I've said, but we need to keep going.   

Now, we all know very well that we face in 2011 loss of exclusivity on the largest product in the history of the pharmaceutical industry and that we have to be, while we're fixing the foundation of this business, while we are improving our operational performance, we have to be thinking about -- not just thinking about, but taking actions to prepare ourselves for that time, to reset the Company strategically; to really push our late-stage pipeline; to provide real focus on the value that's in that pipeline; to continue with focused and aggressive business development; to see whether we can get more out of our mature products, which I think is an important opportunity; to focus on parts of the world like Asia, where there are tremendous opportunities we need to continue to do; to looking for complementary products and technologies that can enhance the value of our offerings. And we are going to focus on all of this on multiple fronts.   

So over the next year and in the next months, I think you'll see continued activity across all those areas that I've listed. There is not a magic bullet here. There is not a single solution that one day we're going to open the curtain and unveil. I'm sorry if people find that disappointing. We're very focused on building the foundation for success, optimizing our current performance and doing everything we need to do to prepare the Company for the Lipitor LOE.   

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, Banc of America.   

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Just two quick questions. Maybe first, with regards to the Lipitor franchise, without a natural follow-on in the cholesterol business, with 10mg under pressure, is 2008 or 2009 too early to start thinking about pulling back resources from that product, or is it still, from your perspective, a good investment, even with the declines, given that we kind of are heading towards that -- I think it was just mentioned -- that 2011 wall?   

And then secondly, a question with regard to -- maybe for Martin Mackay with regards to the R&D. Just the scopes of R&D efforts right now -- are you comfortable with the breadth of investment or what are your thoughts on just maybe  Pfizer focusing on pure therapeutic categories, maybe kind of the target investment you're making on oncology, as an example, bringing more resources towards maybe a more selected portfolio of products?   

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Chris, I'm going to let Ian take the first question and just mention -- and you'll get to know him a lot better -- it's Mackay, not McKay. So Ian, do you want to talk about further investments in Lipitor?   

IAN READ: Chris, as you can imagine, the statin market is extremely competitive, not only on the generic side, but on the branded side with the large investments behind Crestor and Vytorin. And we analyze this very carefully and have models to look at response rates, and I've got no doubt that we need to continue to maintain the support behind this brand through the periods that you discussed. There's no questions about it in my mind.   

MARTIN MACKAY: Jeff alluded to the fact that we visited all the major R&D sites last week. During that visit, we took along our new PGRD leadership team, plus Corey Goodman and gained a tremendous amount of excitement amongst the colleagues for some of the changes we have made.   

At those meetings, we laid out our very distinct five-point plan to all the colleagues in R&D, and although I won't go through all of the points in the interest of time, I will mention two or three of them, which really addresses the point that you make.   

Clearly, and again as Jeff alluded to, over the short term we must make sure that we deliver on our Phase III portfolio. We know this portfolio isn't as rich as we would like it to be in Phase III, but nevertheless there's a lot of value there around our oncology platform with axitinib, CTLA4, etc., and other indications for Sutent. We also have some other exciting compounds in that area, and we must deliver to gain the value for the Company.   

Secondly, we need to make sure that this rich Phase II portfolio that we have, which again as already been alluded to, is we actually translate into Phase III, and we do have a real potential of creating more Phase III starts next year and in '09 and '10 than we ever have before as an organization, so to really accelerate the hottest compounds through that pipeline.   

Now to the real piece that you've asked about. To do this, and this was the second part of the plan, we are going to have to focus resources on the highest-priority compounds and the highest-priority disease areas, so immediately have launched a team to look at all the compounds that we currently have in development, and we will be going through those in a rigorous analysis one by one over the next two to three weeks to make sure we are backing the very finest compounds.   

Then next on our list is to look at the disease areas that we work in, and again, we've been doing quite a piece of work over the summer already to really get to the heart of what are the therapeutic areas that we are going to be really pushing over the next period. You mentioned one of them, oncology. Of course, we have other very hot areas. Diabetes will continue to be a very important area for us. Alzheimer's disease, for example, and a number of other areas that over a very short period of time we are going to focus our resources on to the hottest compounds and the hottest areas.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Martin. We have time for one more question.   

OPERATOR: James Kelly,  Goldman Sachs.

JAMES KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I thought I would just ask a quick two-part question on this. One, I would like to follow up on David's question and really ask about the fixed cost component on the Exubera exit. If we're looking at about $1.1 billion worth of intangibles and $500 million or just under that worth of fixed assets, what should we think about the fixed cost charge per annum that will not be in the numbers going forward?   

And then secondly, as we take a look at some of the pipeline products that  Pfizer has recently discontinued, or even Exubera, I've definitely seen that some of the products that were in-licensed in a very competitive process and had fairly high royalty rates for whatever reason were not meeting the right economic hurdles or were not looking like they were going to meet the right profile. Are you thinking differently now about how you bring products in and what sort of variable cost component could come in on products that you're looking at from a bus dev perspective? Thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, I will let Frank take the first part.   

FRANK D'AMELIO: I think in terms of the first part of the question on fixed costs, clearly, to your point, there will be some costs that will not be incurred, which is the point that you were asking about when we get into 2008. But as I made the same point before, that is part of an array of various items we're working our way through relative to the 2008 plan and to the guidance that we reaffirmed today on 2008. We're still working through the details of the '08 plan. We're comfortable with the general parameters we've provided today, and come January we'll provide another update on our 2008 guidance.   

JEFF KINDLER: Jim, could you just restate your second question again, please?   

JAMES KELLY: As you take a look at the opportunity thanks to in-license or business development in general, are you thinking differently about what kind of economics you want to bring in-house? Because some of those products that you've recently exited, whether it's Exubera or others in the pipeline, had much higher variable cost burdens or royalty burdens. Is that a part of the calculus here at all?   

JEFF KINDLER: I will let David respond to that.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ, VICE CHAIRMAN,  PFIZER INC.: Jim, there's a number of different ways that we are addressing business development, not only from an economic point of view, but from an organizational point of view and also in terms of the types of transactions we're likely to enter into.   

So let me highlight first that we are exercising greater discipline in terms of the way that we are approaching overall business development, understanding, as you highlight, not only the initial cost in terms of entering into a transaction, but the ongoing burden to the Company at the same time. In some respects, you have to take a look a business development the same way you take a look at internal activity, and you are just acquiring whatever you are acquiring at whatever stage on that basis. And you have to take into consideration the fact that you're only going to be able to accommodate a certain level of activity at the same time.   

Also understand, you're not going to see your father's approach to business development going forward. You will see classical ways of entering into licenses and acquisitions, but you're also going to see more alliances being established along the lines of what we put in place for apixaban.   

Let me tell you what that ends up doing strategically -- one, spreading the risk; two, making sure you advantage the best capabilities of people in the business; and three, this is probably the more elegant way of dealing with what is an overcapacity in the pharmaceutical industry by pulling together activities.   

So hopefully that answers your question. There are going to be a lot of changes in the approach, not only from an economic point of view but a risk point of view and a capabilities point of view at the same time.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, David. That's all the time we have today. I appreciate all of you listening in, and have a good afternoon.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071025e3ai001xh
  


 HD
 Q2  2007  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,353 words
   PD
18 July 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Amal Naj, Head of Investors' Development, you may begin.   

AMAL NAJ, VP, INVESTOR DEVELOPMENT AND STRATEGY,  PFIZER INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to our second-quarter 2007 analyst call. I am here with Jeff Kindler, Chairman and CEO; and David Shedlarz, Vice Chairman; Ian Read, Head of our Worldwide Pharmaceuticals; John LaMattina, Head of Research and Development; Alan Levin, Chief Financial Officer; Allen Waxman, General Counsel; and others.   

   TD
Before they review our second-quarter results and take your questions, I would like to read the cautionary statement that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2006 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.   

Also, the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Reconciliations of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our current report on Form 8-K dated July 18, 2007. These reports are available on our website at   www.pfizer.com   and the "For Investors - SEC Filings by  Pfizer" section.   

Thank you and now I would like to turn it over to Jeff Kindler, our CEO and Chairman.   

JEFF KINDLER, CEO, CHAIRMAN,  PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Amal. Good afternoon, everyone. Before we get your questions, I would like to make a few comments regarding our performance this quarter and for the year so far, the progress we are making on the immediate priorities that we announced in January and some of the ways we're looking ahead to the future. Ian Read will then follow up with additional detail on the recent performance of Lipitor and prospects for the product's full-year performance, and then we will get to your questions.   

On our performance, let me be direct. It was a tough quarter. There were three major factors. First, since last year's comparable period, exclusivity ended for two major products, Zoloft and Norvasc. Second, we made payments to  Bristol-Myers Squibb this quarter in connection with our collaboration to develop and commercialize apixaban, an important opportunity for us. Third, Lipitor's performance in the US fell short of our expectations.   

Regarding Lipitor, we are in a tough battle, as you know. The statin market has proven to be even more intensely competitive than we believed it would be. Ian will shortly explain the different factors involved and describe how we will continue to execute on our programs that differentiate Lipitor from the competition.   

Regarding our new products, which will, of course, be increasingly important contributors to our future, three significant new products -- Chantix, Sutent and Lyrica -- performed extremely well, and we continued to launch these products around the world. Of course, another new product, Exubera, continues to be disappointing, despite the positive feedback we received from patients that are using it. We continue to execute on our 2007 action plan.   

Combining today's results with our strong first-quarter performance, our revenues and earnings are on track for the year, and we are reaffirming our 2007 and 2008 financial guidance for revenues and diluted EPS, notwithstanding the complex, fast-changing and competitive marketplace in which we're operating. Today's results simply underscore what we said when we met with you six months ago. At that time, we were very clear about both the scope and the substance of our challenges and opportunities and the need to address those challenges and opportunities realistically and with a sense of urgency. We knew that the first thing we needed to do was to make some basic changes in the way that we operate, in order to put ourselves in the best position to succeed.   

In that connection, we established five priorities that needed immediate attention -- an intense focus on maximizing our near and long-term revenues; the establishment of a lower and more flexible cost base; the creation of a smaller, more focused and more accountable operating structure; changing our culture to one that has a complete commitment to engaging collaboratively with the people outside our walls that are critical to our success; and, finally, making  Pfizer a great place to work.   

We remain committed to delivering on these changes, because they will provide the foundation that we must have for  Pfizer's success as we develop our plans for the future. We had no illusions in January and we have no illusions today that these changes could occur overnight. But I believe that in the six months since we adopted these priorities, we are making strong progress. We've detailed some of that in the press release today, and we will continue to provide you with status reports, but let me just mention two examples this afternoon.   

First, research and development. Obviously, our future success will be created in our laboratories and in the laboratories outside our company, with whom we collaborate through alliances, licenses, acquisitions or other arrangements. For that reason, while we are reducing costs significantly in other parts of the organization, we held the R&D budget steady. But we shifted significant spending from bricks and mortar and administrative costs to our central mission, science and the discovery and development of drugs. We committed to simplify  Pfizer R&D, both in terms of our footprint and our organizational structures, so as to better unleash the creativity of our scientists.   

I have to tell you I am very encouraged by what has been accomplished in R&D in a mere six months. We have a number of new leaders from both inside and outside the Company in place; and, remarkably, two-thirds of the portfolio projects that needed to be transferred across research sites are already being actively pursued in their new location. The remainder will be transferred by the end of this year.   

Even more importantly, the vast majority of our scientists working in projects that are moving to another site who have been offered the opportunity to transfer have, in fact, agreed to relocate. I know of no better sign of confidence in  Pfizer R&D and its future than the fact that our scientists are voting with their feet. I want to take this opportunity publicly to thank the PGRD management team around the world for their outstanding leadership in this challenging time.   

A second example of how the changes that we announced in January are taking hold -- the new US business unit structure and associated field forces went fully operational only four months ago. All five business units have strong leaders and energized teams that are already having an impact. I could give you lots of examples of this, but let me just pick one, because it relates to something important that just happened, the new Lyrica indication for fibromyalgia that we just received. I believe this is representative of things that are happening across our company.   

Andreas Fibig is the new leader of our Powers business unit. As you know, we are well on our way to building a leadership team at  Pfizer that represents a good balance between those with deep industry and  Pfizer experience and those who will bring the new perspectives that we need.   

Andreas is a great example of both. A 20-year veteran of our industry, he has led businesses around the world for five different pharmaceutical companies. Like his counterparts in the other four US business units, Andreas is running his business in the way that makes the most sense for the products that he has. His entire team has a clear line of sight to the results for which they are accountable, and they are moving quickly and decisively.   

Thanks to the great work of our development and regulatory colleagues, we obtained approval of the fibro indication as much as two to three times faster than might have been typical in the past. The Powers business unit is now executing on a fast-to-market strategy that will unleash a full array of sales and marketing resources, including DTC, within three months of FDA approval. In the past, it was not uncommon at this point in a product's rollout for us to still be in just the planning stage of promotional activities that would still be many months away.   

These two examples validate my view that while we're on a continuing journey to transform the Company, we can and will quickly make the changes that we need to make to establish the necessary foundation for our future success. Of course, it's also critical that we develop and implement the plans that will assure that over the medium to long term,  Pfizer adapts itself to the changing needs and demands of our customers, so that we are and remain a leader in providing innovative new therapies for unmet medical needs that patients and payers will highly value and, as a result, drive revenues.   

In that regard, our leadership team has been engaged in an intense and comprehensive review of a range of opportunities that will shape the company over the next 5 to 10 years. We are re-examining our business mix, so that we develop compounds and pursue opportunities aggressively in the right disease areas, technologies and geographies, all with a clear focus on our best opportunities for growth.   

Our areas of focus include, first, in R&D, improving productivity by focusing on and accelerating key opportunities. In particular, we're committing considerable resources to promising areas like oncology, diabetes and neurological disorders, among others.   

Second, in business development, we have undertaken a thorough prioritization of every therapeutic area, and are actively engaged in a disciplined but opportunistic plan for supplementing our internally generated programs, including through new accretive deal structures such as you saw with apixaban.   

Third, in therapeutic platforms, we know that the majority of our drugs will continue to consist of small molecules. That has always been and will always be a core strength of this company. But we believe large molecules offer significant promising R&D opportunities that we need to pursue, and we are intent on doing so.   

Fourth, in terms of the entire life cycle of our products, we're looking at every aspect of our business model, optimizing new indications, accelerating high-quality, low-cost manufacturing, deriving additional value from mature products and innovating our go-to-market strategies.   

Fifth, stepping up our focus and investments in emerging markets in Europe and Asia.   

Finally, seeking complementary opportunities in products and technologies that could add value to our core pharmaceutical offerings. We believe that each of these areas of focus and others offer significant opportunities for  Pfizer to play a leading role in a world in which the aging population, economic changes and continuous advances in science and medicine will all drive both people's increasing need for high-quality, cost-effective healthcare and also the opportunity to help meet that need by providing new, innovative and highly valuable therapies. I believe we're making solid progress toward that goal.   

Now I would like to turn it over to Ian, who will return to the subject immediately at hand, this quarter's performance, particularly as it relates to Lipitor.   

IAN READ, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS,  PFIZER INC.: Good afternoon. We are now at the half-year point, and I would like to make some remarks on Lipitor's performance. When we set our forecast, it was subject to several variables, such as double-digit market growth continuing, level of switches, our share of new patient starts and the effectiveness of our marketing platform differentiating the unique benefits of Lipitor from the competition.   

So where are we now? In the first half, Lipitor sales worldwide were $6.1 billion, down 2%. Internationally, sales grew 7% in the first half and 5% in the second quarter. This reflects the impact of our marketing and field-based strategies operating successfully, late in the cycle of generic simvastatin, which has been available in many international markets for at least three to four years. Obviously, we're much earlier in the cycle in the US.   

Looking at our six-month numbers, which are the best indicator of how we are doing, Lipitor sales in the US were down 8%, which consisted of a 10-point script decline, partially offset by (inaudible) pricing impact net of rebates. In the second quarter, Lipitor's US performance was negatively impacted by two factors, which we had highlighted in the first quarter as positively impacting the brand. These two factors -- changes in the US wholesale inventory levels and the differences in reconciliation of internal/external data that are normally seen each quarter, to varying degrees -- accounted for approximately 50% of the revenue declines in the US second-quarter results, and are not expected to have a negative impact on US performance over the second half of the year. Other contributing factors to the quarter's performance include a decreased level of prescriptions as well as increased rebates associated with our more flexible contracting activities.   

Putting all this together, at the six-month point, global Lipitor sales are down 2%. For the full year, we forecast global Lipitor revenues of flat to a 5% decline relative to the prior year. We have incorporated into this forecast a moderation in the level of decline of prescriptions in the US market relative to the second quarter, reflecting extensive promotional and contracting efforts. In addition, we have incorporated an increase in the level of contracting rebates, consistent with our current, more flexible contracting policy.   

So let's look at the key metrics in the market. In terms of volume drivers, while the net switch volume loss to generics was greater than expected, peaking at around 24,000 per week after multi-source simvastatin generic availability, we are now seeing good recovery from that, headed back towards pre-multi-source generic levels of around 13,000. Switches to CRESTOR and VYTORIN are minimal, accounting for less than 15% of total net switches.   

While I am pleased with the slope of the switch curve, I'm less satisfied with our new patient starts, which represent about 15% of the NRx market. We need to improve our performance here.   

There is no doubt that we continue to face a difficult payer environment, with plan administrators under significant pressure to move to generic simvastatin, but I would not underestimate our determination and the progress we are making. We continue to have good Tier 2 access. In fact, about two-thirds of US commercial Medicare Part D, Medicaid and federally insured lives now have Tier 2 access to Lipitor.   

This is not an accident. It is a consequence of the changes we have made in our customer-focused business unit. We are far more dynamic and granular in understanding where our customers are going and their needs.   

Our recent agreement with ESI, where Lipitor has been added to its nationally preferred formulary with Tier 2 unrestricted access starting in June, is a good example of how our approach is working. We continue to use our knowledge to optimize our Tier 2 access, and we are meeting with each customer to maintain our strong formulary position and meet patients' needs.   

We also continue to execute on the strategies laid out in January to drive Lipitor's value and differentiation. We have new indications strengthening our full package of Lipitor's potency; its unique combination of efficacy, outcomes and safety; an extensive TV and radio campaign; strong execution of our field force; and adherence programs to support patients to stay on the full course of therapy.   

To close, we have market growth as expected. Switch is headed in the right direction. We're aggressively executing our marketing programs, and our field force is motivated, set to leverage our recent gains in formulary position to drive volume and new patient share. Thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Ian, and --   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Roopesh Patel,  UBS.

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST,  UBS: I have a couple of questions. First, on inventory, can you help us quantify the extent of the inventory impact on the 6% revenue decline that we've seen in this quarter?   

Then my sense is that, historically,  Pfizer has had a very tight control over wholesaler inventory levels, and therefore we didn't really see the kind of inventory swings in the past that I presume has impacted reported sales during the past two quarters. I'm just wondering what, if anything, has changed.   

Then separately, on cost of goods, I'm curious about the increase in the absolute dollar spending cost of goods on a year-over-year basis. It's up 12% despite a 6% drop in revenues, and this is after filling out the $215 million charge related to the AtS program and the business transition activities, and I'm wondering if you could just elaborate on that as well.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Roopesh. I'm going to ask David to address both inventory and cost of goods, and then Ian may elaborate as it pertains to particular products.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ, VICE CHAIRMAN,  PFIZER INC.: Inventories can be looked at along two fronts -- one in aggregate for the Company, and then on a product-specific basis, and they are two different stories at this point in time. So I think, overall, and in terms of the inventory position of the Company, it's pretty in balance with where it was in the prior years. Now inventory with the wholesale class of trade quarter to quarter changes in the wholesalers, given their underlying business management of their own inventories.   

But inventory was not a major dislocating factor for the Company as a whole, in terms of its performance in the second quarter. I'll asked Ian to expand upon this in a moment. It was a factor across individual products, some benefiting and some seeing a negative impact, and in particular, Lipitor, where we saw in the first quarter a not insignificant benefit from increasing wholesaler inventories that reversed in the second quarter.   

So let me just kind of summarize once again. Overall, not a major factor in terms of the revenue performance of the Company in the quarter. Product-specific storage -- yes, particularly as it relates to Lipitor.   

In terms of cost of goods, cost of goods as a percent of sales in the first quarter was 14%. Cost of goods on an adjusted basis in the second quarter was 17%. So your question is a very valid and important one. In the second quarter, what we saw is the unfavorable impact of both products and geographic mix, and our dear friend, foreign exchange, while it favorably impacted revenues, unfavorably impacted expenses including cost of goods.   

So, in particular, in terms of geographic mix, we saw about 55% of the revenues come from our international operations in the second quarter, primarily due to the tempering of the performance of Lipitor in the United States. That's abnormal. What we're likely to see in terms of the mix of revenues, both domestically and internationally for the full year, is about 50% for both. As you know, the US pricing flexibility is greater than the international market, so it tends to benefit the gross margin of the Company.   

Another critical factor are our productivity programs in the manufacturing area, our AtS program and general productivity improvements coming from the rationalization of our manufacturing facilities and our production processes. That will kick in quite strongly during the second half of the year. As a result, despite the fact that cost of goods was 17% for the quarter, we continue to expect cost of goods as a percent of sales to be approximately 15% for the full year.   

So with that, can I hand it over to Ian? Or did you have something more specific on either one of those items?   

ROOPESH PATEL: Just as the quick follow-up, in terms of products where you said that there have been inventory swings across products as we look beyond the second quarter, are there higher-than-normal inventories with any specific products that you would like to highlight that could unwind in the second half?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: No. If anything, I think we had higher-than-expected inventory levels for a few products in the first quarter that reversed themselves in the second quarter. Lipitor is a perfect example of that.   

JEFF KINDLER: Ian, did you want to add anything?   

IAN READ: Well, why don't I deal more specifically with Lipitor, as I'm sure there are a lot of questions about it. So we have said in the release and I did comment that in the second quarter, 50% of the decrease was impacted by inventory reductions and differences -- quarter to quarter, we can't explain between our internal data and external data. The external data is sampling data; it's IMS. When we finish the quarter we only have two months of data, and also wholesale inventories are sampling data. So we always have had quarter-to-quarter differences between our reported results and what the script trends would indicate.   

So in the first quarter, as we pointed out, this was favorable on inventory and it was favorable in the unexplained category. We also had in the first quarter of favorable rebate that we discussed through true-ups. So in the second quarter, we see a reversal of those transitory items. We see inventory coming back down in Lipitor to normal levels, undoubtedly being adjusted for the run rate they see in the scripts, and we see a reversal of these unexplained items. The rebates in the second quarter had a true-up that was negative, which compounded the impact on the negative performance in the quarter.   

These true-ups of rebates are very complex. It's partly due to Part D dual-eligibles, non-eligible's. It takes a substantial time for the claims to work through their cycle. So net net on rebates, first quarter was negative, second quarter was positive. This six-month data is 8% or 10% down on scripts, positive 2% to 3% net price rebates explaining the first half. Overall, we feel we see the rebates being -- the net of pricing rebates being positive in the first half and being positive full year.   

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, Banc of America.   

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Just two quick questions, please. Going back to Lipitor inventory levels -- I'm sorry if I missed this earlier on the call. But specifically, what were your Lipitor inventory levels at the end of the first quarter and end of the second quarter, just in terms of number of days outstanding, et cetera?   

Second, can you talk a little bit more about your decision to return to the Express for [forward] formulary? I guess what I'm asking here is, for some of your more mature products approaching patent expiration like a Lipitor, maybe it's a bit early. But at some point, do you look to manage these franchises through higher price and less rebating, rather than more detailing, even if that means less Tier 2 access? Just any color on that would be appreciated. Thanks.   

JEFF KINDLER: Ian, do you want to take those two?   

IAN READ: Lipitor specifically -- you have to understand that our weeks on hand fluctuate throughout the year, both for the total division and product by product. We manage it on a total division basis. Vis-a-vis Lipitor specifically, at the end of the first quarter we had approximately 3.8 weeks on hand of Lipitor, and at the end of the second quarter we had 1.8 weeks on hand for Lipitor.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: This is the cycle which is normal in wholesalers. They tend to have largely higher inventories at the end of the first quarter for us, and then adjust them down in the second quarter. So this is not overly abnormal relative to prior-year performance.   

IAN READ: Correct. Now, vis-a-vis  Express Scripts, clearly, this is a -- we see this as a win-win for patients, ourselves and  Express Scripts. It's important to get Lipitor back on national formularies and make it available to patients, and clearly we expect the increased volume to be favorable to the overall performance of Lipitor in this contract.   

JEFF KINDLER: If I could just add a couple things, prompted by your second question, first of all, with regard to  Express Scripts, in addition to what Ian said, we really are working very hard and, I think, successfully to establish new and more collaborative approaches with our customers,  Express Scripts being a very important one. They had a significant impact on our share, and it was important for us to get back on their formulary in a good position, to be in a competitive place from which our field force can drive prescriptions. So that's, I think, kind of emblematic of the general approach that we're trying to take across all of our different customers and partners outside the Company.   

On the other point that you made, I think is absolutely a good insight that we will continue to think about different approaches to different parts of our business. We have new products, we have in-line products, we have products that are maturing and ultimately going off patent. All of these different kinds of products, different kinds of markets, may require different approaches than perhaps have been taken in the past. We are taking a very good and hard look at how we can optimize different products at different points in their lifecycle, because we recognize that we're really in many different businesses here, and one size certainly doesn't fit all.   

Is that -- you had anything further, Chris?   

CHRIS SCHOTT: No, that's helpful. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: David Risinger,  Merrill Lynch.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: My questions are about the inventory and rebate swings. I'm sorry to go back to this, but the inventory at wholesalers was obviously above normal in the first quarter, and then it was worked down in the second quarter. But I'm just wondering if you had any thoughts on why that inventory was above normal in the first quarter to begin with, because typically wholesalers by ahead of price increases. Your price increases January 1st each year, and I would think that they would then work down inventory in the first quarter after that. So any color on that would be helpful.   

Then in terms of the true-ups that boosted the first quarter and then swung the other direction and hurt this quarter's sales, do you have any outlook for the third-quarter true-up swing or if there might be a true-up swing in the third quarter?   

JEFF KINDLER: I'm going to let David start and then Ian can elaborate.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Let me come back on this again at two levels. In terms of inventories overall, wholesalers tend to have relatively high inventories from  Pfizer in the first quarter, as a historical pattern. This is not unusual. This is when they usually take advantage of whatever largess we offer to them, in terms of pre-price-increase buy-in for the Company. That's not abnormal; it's pretty consistent year to year.   

In terms of Lipitor, which is a different situation, I think in some respects, that may reflect the wholesalers reacting to the changing script trend for that product line, and taking the opportunity in the second quarter to kind of catch up to unfortunately the script decline for the product line, to get their inventories back in line in terms of where they see sales going forward over the longer term.   

So it was relatively high in the first quarter for that particular product line, and then, with the script trend for the product line, they moved to adjust their inventories during the second quarter. Is that helpful, David?   

DAVID RISINGER: Yes, thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: Ian, anything to add on that?   

IAN READ: Was there a second part to the [question]?   

JEFF KINDLER: Yes.   

IAN READ: Well, true-ups -- by their nature, you can't predict them. They are the result of the client cycle over a long period of time. When I can say is we don't forecast true-up movements, but we had forecast an increased rebate rate in our Lipitor business over the second half, which is reflective of what we know that we have been doing on our contracting.   

DAVID RISINGER: Then just one final question. We have seen a little bit of a moderation in the TRx growth of the statin market. I think in the most recent weekly data -- and obviously one week doesn't make a trend, but in the most recent few weeks, the statin market total RX growth has moderated to just under 10%, so it's slipping below the double digits. Have you factored that into your new Lipitor guidance, that the statin market is moderating?   

IAN READ: We factored in the Medicare Part D when it happened, and we factored into our forecasts the type of growth we saw prior to Medicare Part D in the marketplace as part of our forecasting.   

OPERATOR: Tony Butler,  Lehman Brothers.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Jeff, sort of a broader question that was alluded to in the press release, but I'm hopeful you'll expand on it. It's with respect to the search of the replacement for the retiring Dr. John LaMattina. I'm curious how, while you have made some commentary around changes internally in R&D, you have been very pleased with a great deal of progress. But I think I tend to be concerned about how leadership, certainly senior leadership, can create additional disruptions. I'd love to for you to spend a little bit of time, if you care to, around how you think about that new person or persons to head up that group.   

The second question, again, Ian, is -- and I apologize -- around Lipitor again. But what would be the normalized switch rate for Lipitor if, in fact, we did not have generic simvastatin? So prior to generic simvastatin, what was the normalized switch rate?   

JEFF KINDLER: With regard to R&D leadership, we announced John's retirement about two months ago, which may seem like a long time. But in view of the significance of this role for the future of our company, we are working as quickly as we can to find that successor to John, but we're going to do it right. We're not going to rush this any more than is necessary. We're moving very quickly, reviewing a lot of candidates externally and internally. We're going to make sure we get the right person for the job. But we are two months into the process, and we're moving as fast as we can.   

Your point is certainly well taken. PGRD has been through an enormous amount of disruption over the last several years, starting with the Warner-Lambert transaction, the Pharmacia transaction, AtS, productivity initiatives and the like. No one can argue that that doesn't create disruption, distraction, impact productivity and morale. Clearly, it does. But sometimes, in order to make the changes that one has to make, you have to pay that price in the short term.   

What I'm gratified about, though, is that in this time period, John and the rest of the PGRD leadership team have really kept their eye on the ball and are focused on the goals that they have for this year. My experience is that the scientists that are actually working on the programs are most focused on the programs; that's what they care about. If they are leading a program that is really important to them, and they feel they are getting the support that they need to do it, they stay focused on it and they stay focused on delivering on it.   

That's not to say that there won't be some disruptive effect from this; there certainly will, but I think much less than I might have feared. I really am, I have to say, surprised on the upside significantly by how well we're doing, in regard to acceptances of the offers we're making to scientists who we are asking to uproot their families and move across the country. The acceptance rate is truly remarkable, and much higher than I would have predicted.   

I did mention that we are putting new leaders into place throughout the organization -- a new Head of Research, Rod McKenzie, a long-time  Pfizer colleague who has enormous breadths of experience and is bringing some exciting new leadership to that part of the organization; new therapeutic area leaders in different parts of the organization. They are moving on -- the organization is moving on to focus on the programs and the compounds and driving to their results.   

It's an organization that has always been very good at focusing on execution. They know what they need to do; they are focused on it. To be sure, there's disruption. There's issues around anxiety and uncertainty that are unavoidable under these circumstances, and therefore I'm very acutely aware of the need to move quickly to establish the new leadership and move forward, and I'm confident that we will do that.   

Now, Ian, moving from what might be said to be one side of the spectrum of life to the other, I think there's further questions about Lipitor.   

IAN READ: I don't have the data in front of me, but from recollection, I suspect that the net switching to Lipitor prior to the genericization of Zocor was probably positive or close to zero. We may have been losing some with the advent of VYTORIN and CRESTOR, but we're gaining in other areas. I suspect it was roundabout slightly positive or zero.   

Now, prior to multi-source generic simvastatin, we were about 13,000 negative weekly to generics. We are now back down at that level, as I commented earlier, which -- I am very pleased with that slope. We brought it back from 26,000 at its peak to 13,000 over that period. Now, a switch for us -- if I want to compare what switches were in the business compared to what a new patient start is worth, on a scale of 1 to 10, a switch is probably worth a 6, so a reduction in switches is more important to us than new patient starts.   

So when I look at our forecasting, it's a sort of balance between the performance that I'm doing on switches and new patient starts, where we do need to do better. So, looking at our forecast overall, it's clearly dependent upon the market growth, which we see at the levels we see today, our ability to do better with new patient starts, increase reducing the switch level. Basically, that's how I see the model of our forecasting on Lipitor.   

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin,  Morgan Stanley.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A couple of questions -- Jeff, firstly with you. I'm wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on your plans to pursue opportunities in biotherapeutics. As a corollary to that question, I'm just wondering if you could comment on how pleased you are with the pace of change you've seen at  Pfizer. Because Biotech has been an area that  Pfizer had targeted as an area for acquisitions now for several years, even before you were CEO. From where we sit, we're not seeing a whole lot of action there. So maybe you could provide a little bit more color beyond what was in the press release on the opportunities in biotherapeutics.   

My second question is for David, and it relates to guidance next year of $2.30 to $2.45. Obviously, it seems that the biggest swing factor is on the revenue side, a $2 billion swing factor on the top line. Can you give us a little bit more granularity on what we should expect for SG&A and R&D? Because to get to even to the bottom end of that range, assuming sort of a midpoint of the range on revenues, we've got to assume a pretty big haircut to the absolute level of SG&A and R&D spend. I just want to make sure that we're thinking about that correctly.   

JEFF KINDLER: I'll start on biotherapeutics. First of all, I think it's always important to emphasize on this topic that the majority, the large majority of  Pfizer's products for the foreseeable future will be small molecules. That's our core competence. That's what we're good at. That's still a very, very important area for us and for meeting unmet medical needs. I don't want to be understood to be moving away from that commitment in any way, shape or form.   

Having said that, we really do believe that biotherapeutics provides us with lots of opportunities in all kinds of dimensions. It opens up potentially new targets. It creates the opportunities possibly to find new modalities for addressing diseases. It brings with it new research tools and technologies, and it brings with it new people with different backgrounds, different experiences and different sets of expertise. I think we owe it to ourselves to find the best ways of extending our presence in that area.   

With regard to our commitment to it over the years, I really can't speak to that. I can tell you that we actually have a pretty substantial substrate in the early stage of our pipeline on biotherapeutics. It's not one that is by itself sufficient to put us necessarily in the leading positions that we want to be in, but it's not nothing, either. We're advancing those compounds very aggressively, and we have a great deal of expertise across the Company in this area.   

But we think we need to do more, and we think we need to do it effectively and with a great deal of impact. We're looking at various ways to really kind of jump-start our activities in that area, and we are very excited about those opportunities. All I can ask you to do is stay tuned on that (multiple speakers).   

JAMI RUBIN: Can you just give us a sense of timing?   

JEFF KINDLER: Well, timing -- it may not be a single step; it may be a series of steps by which this presence is built. It could be steps large and small. We have been and are continuing to enter into both small acquisitions and licensing and alliance arrangements to supplement our existing competencies in that area. But we want to move with as much speed as possible to get ourselves in a position to play a meaningful role in this sector as soon as we possibly can. Beyond that, I really don't want to speculate about exact timing on various possibilities.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: On the expense front, it's too early to give you a breakdown on the individual expenses in SI&A and R&D and cost of goods. What I would point you to, on the other hand, is the continued commitment to reduce the absolute level of spending by at least $1.5 million to $2 billion in 2008 relative to 2006 at current exchange rates. So your focus in on the continued benefit from the broad-based productivity initiatives of the Company, and the fact that it is one of the key drivers in terms of the performance in 2008, is quite appropriate.   

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold,  Credit Suisse.

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Jeff, I'm wondering if you could reflect on the past half year, if you will. You think about all the give-and-take -- obviously, Lipitor, but other performance issues as well -- and tell me what your thoughts are, sort of, about that on three issues.   

One, do you think that guidance for 2007 and 2008, although you're believing still achievable, is more challenging than it was perhaps at the end of the first quarter or the beginning of the year, just because you're getting into the crux of the business a bit more and the challenges are a bit higher?   

Two, whether it drives or motivates you to look for material opportunities for further cost reductions than those that have been announced.   

Lastly, also, if the health of the business has changed your perception at all in terms of your interest in strategic acquisitions from a scale perspective and from an urgency perspective.   

JEFF KINDLER: Well, let me, if I could, kind of pick up the last word you used there and then come back to some of the other things you said. That word is urgency. We are acutely aware of the challenges and opportunities that the industry as a whole faces and that  Pfizer in particular faces, and we recognize that we have to address all of those issues with a sense of urgency.   

I think that the best way to think about that from my point of view is across a whole host of dimensions. There's any number of different ways that we need to address this on multiple fronts at the same time, and those were some of the things I tried to outline in my earlier comments, everything from increased productivity, cost structure, all the way toward thinking differently about how we perform different businesses, how we operate mature products as opposed to in-line products, as an example, thinking about things like biotherapeutics. There's a range of activities that I've identified that I think we have to go after all at the same time, as effectively as we can.   

I think that with regard to the specific question of cost, we certainly have a strong commitment to improving the productivity of the Company and of the cost structure. We're going to continue to go after that to the extent that we can and need to. We're going to be responsible about it, and we're going to think differently about our business model.   

I think, in the end, the real opportunities for improved productivity in our industry have to do with new ways of thinking about business model innovation that could produce even greater efficiencies and things like how we go to market and how we manufacture our drugs and even how we discover and develop them. So we'll continue to do that.   

Are there potentially additional opportunities, as you asked, going forward in the future? I think so. I believe that. There's always an opportunity to continue to improve and get better and more productive. We're going to have a very, very strong focus on that as we go forward, as we have been doing already. That will continue to be part of our culture forever -- to get better, to get more productive, to reduce costs, to get more efficient and to modify our business model to better meet the requirements of our investors and the needs of our customers.   

Regarding guidance, we do our very, very best to forecast where we think we're going, what we're doing. We have a lot of, if you will, different elements that are available to us to ensure that we do achieve our commitments, and we're committed to doing that where we need to. Is it a challenging environment? There's no question about it. Are we seeing things in that environment that are not what we hoped and expected? Absolutely. Certainly, some of what we've talked about this morning about Lipitor is clearly in that category. On the other hand, we're always happy to see upside surprises and things doing better than we thought -- Chantix and Lyrica and Sutent being a great example of that.   

So there's ups and downs, there's challenges, there's many moving parts here to what we're doing. I'm very comfortable with the guidance that we're giving and our ability to achieve it and the commitment of the organization to doing what is necessary to deliver both on our short-term commitments but frankly, even more importantly, our long-term needs as a company.   

I hope that's helpful. David? David, I think she had another question for you.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: What did you have? I'm sorry.   

CATHERINE ARNOLD: Well, actually just a little bit more granularity was, is the guidance tougher at this point in the year than you thought it would be at the end of the first quarter?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Again, I think as Jeff has outlined, there's some pluses and minuses here which are incorporated in the range. I think the reason for the range is reflecting a natural variability in our business, both for 2007 and 2008.   

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.   

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: I actually have three brief questions. First, were there any one-time impacts on second-quarter Lipitor sales, either positive or negative, due to the  Express Scripts arrangement?   

Secondly, Ranbaxy's request to the Patent Office to re-examine the basic Lipitor patent is a bit puzzling, given that this patent was upheld on appeal. What can we conclude if the Patent Office does indeed choose to re-examine the patent?   

Third, post demise of torcetrapib, what other combinations is  Pfizer exploring to transform Lipitor, similar to what Merck and Schering accomplished with VYTORIN? Are such opportunities in development now?   

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Regarding ESI, Ian?   

IAN READ: No, there has been no impact as yet. The contract was signed [in effective] of June, and we expect to see the impact of that build over the second half and into 2008.   

JEFF KINDLER: Allen Waxman, our General Counsel, will address the Ranbaxy issue.   

ALLEN WAXMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL,  PFIZER INC.: I do think it is puzzling. They were in litigation with us for four years on the Lipitor patent and chose to never raise this issue, notwithstanding a very aggressive litigation. So I think that speaks somewhat to the merits of the argument.   

Having said that, it is not at all unusual, once a request for a patent re-examination is made for the Patent Office -- that's after all, what it's intended for -- it's not unusual for them to allow for the re-examination and then get into the merits. So I would not read much, if anything, into the merit side of the Patent Office allowing for the re-examination. But I do think it's very telling this was an argument that had not been raised in the four-plus years of the Lipitor litigation.   

JEFF KINDLER: On your third question, we're always looking at combinations, new formulations, new indications, other opportunities to extend the lifecycle of our products and combine them with others. We've certainly looked at that as it pertains to Lipitor and other products. Of course, in the case of Lipitor, the window for exploiting such opportunities may be somewhat limited. But those things are always in the radar screen for us to examine.   

As I was indicating earlier in the call, I think our overall approach to that general subject is going to get more intense. We're going to look much harder as a company at identifying new ways of extracting additional value out of our more mature products. That would be, certainly, part of that exercise.   

STEVE SCALA: May I follow up?   

JEFF KINDLER: Sure.   

STEVE SCALA: So do you have any combinations of Lipitor with anything else, perhaps and absorption inhibitor, in development now?   

JOHN LAMATTINA, PRESIDENT, PFIZER GLOBAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT,  PFIZER INC.: You can check our pipeline, which is on pfizer.com, and see exactly where we are on things of that nature. But we wouldn't really go into any specifics right now, for obvious competitive reasons.   

OPERATOR: Robert Hazlett, BMO Capital Markets.   

ROBERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: You've noted your commitment to diabetes. Exubera currently exists and is [out in] the market today. But what else should we be looking for in terms of being the lead horse in terms of your pipeline efforts there? Is it the DPP-4 inhibitor, the 11b-HSD? Or is this an area in which you would consider licensing?   

Secondly, could you just talk about how you -- the Chantix launch has gone very, very well to date. Could you talk about how you might consider building out additional indications or broadening the effort there with Chantix?   

JEFF KINDLER: John will take the first question and the second.   

JOHN LAMATTINA: Thank you. Certainly, you hit a couple of our key programs with DPP-4 and 11b-HSD. I would also say that, if you look at our obesity compound, the CB-1 antagonist, we are certainly looking at that, the potential impact that has in diabetes as well.   

Then, as Jeff has indicated a couple of times now, we're always looking for other opportunities in the area of diabetes. We think this is -- the diabetes epidemic will continue to grow in this country, as well as in the Western world, and we are pretty committed to that.   

The second -- Chantix. So yes, you have probably seen, for example, the potential of Chantix in alcohol addiction and other things. While our major focus was to get the compound approved for smoking cessation, we are looking at other potential opportunities for Chantix. Jeff has alluded to that as well.   

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.   

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Just wondering if, David, you could quantify by what percent currency impacted SG&A in the quarter, what currency contributed in the quarter in terms of an earnings impact and then, separately, how much the R&D partner payments to Bristol were in the second quarter.   

Additionally, what seasonal factors impacted SG&A? How should we think about that heading into the second half of this year?   

Then this question really, I guess, is more for Ian Read. When you speak about rebate flexibility, there are many that argue that there's no incremental benefit of prescribing 10 mg of Lipitor versus 20 mg or 40 mg of Zocor. What are you doing to drive patients to the higher doses of Lipitor, which has shown an advantage? How are you working with managed care, given the flat pricing of competitor products like CRESTOR and VYTORIN?   

JEFF KINDLER: I'm going to let Alan Levin, our Chief Financial Officer, answer the first set of questions and then Ian will address your second set.   

ALAN LEVIN, CFO,  PFIZER INC.: With respect to foreign exchange, the impact of currency on SG&A year over year was approximately $300 million as an estimate for the full year. That is reflected in our revised guidance on SG&A for the full year. For the quarter, it was approximately $75 million in SI&A and $33 million in R&D.   

With respect to apixaban, we have approximately $325 million of expenses that were booked in the second quarter for that transaction. That's a combination of milestone payments coupled with costs associated with the development of that compound.   

IAN READ: Clearly, we have a positioning and a strategy we have articulated to move the use of Lipitor to the higher doses, where you have patients who need that level of Lipitor to reach their target. So we are doing that with the data we have; we are doing better with our field force and our marketing programs. I really can't get into the specific details of the contracting because it's confidential. But clearly, our contracting strategy is aligned with that strategy to move the product towards the higher doses.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Ian. Well, we have about time for one more question. So if we could get that question, please? Thank you.   

OPERATOR: John Boris,  Bear Stearns.

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: On your new Lipitor guidance and your fiscal 2007 guidance, can you just give some clarity there whether that assumes -- what you assume on your outcome on the Lipitor challenge in Canada? Can you remind us of how large Lipitor is in Canada a?   

Then I think you mentioned in your release that there's another patent challenge going on in Canada. What's the timing around that patent challenge?   

JEFF KINDLER: Allen, do you want to give an update on the Canada situation?   

ALLEN WAXMAN: Sure. So there have been various generic challenges in Canada. The ones we are referring to here -- Ranbaxy, in particular -- we had lost the case below to block approval of Ranbaxy's product. That is currently up on appeal, and we're awaiting a decision. This relates to the [ananymer] patent.   

At the same time, separate and apart from that issue, there are other crystalline form patents that protect Lipitor and vis-a-vis Ranbaxy. Those cases went to trial -- I guess it was in June, and we're expecting a decision in those cases in August.   

In addition, there are yet other patents that protect the product. These patents are somewhat the subject of regulatory proceedings in Canada. There are court cases being decided around what the coverage is that will be allowed for those patents. We will know more from those decisions by year end.   

JEFF KINDLER: So, as it relates to the forecast, especially as 2008, the range that we provided you in terms of the top-line performance incorporates the potential outcomes from a legal point of view, as it relates to the patent position that Allen just discussed with you.   

Well, thank you, everybody. This concludes our call. We appreciate your time and interest. Enjoy the rest of your day.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
brstmy : Bristol-Myers Squibb Co | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070725e37i001b9
  


 HD
 Q1  2007  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,731 words
   PD
20 April 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
JEFF KINDLER, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER: Hello everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Before we begin our call, I would like to ask that we observe a moment of silence in honor and memory of the victims of the Virginia Tech shootings. Today has been declared a day of mourning in Virginia by Governor Kaine of Virginia and Governor Spitzer has asked New Yorkers to pause at noon in respect and compassion for all those affected by this terrible tragedy. So please join me for a moment of silence.   

Thank you. Before we begin, I would like to turn it over to Amal Naj, our Head of Investor Relations, to make the cautionary statements.   

   TD
AMAL NAJ, HEAD, IR, PFIZER: Thank you, Jeff. The discussions at this meeting will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.   

Also, the discussions at this meeting will include certain financial measures that were not declared in accordance with the generally-accepted accounting principles. Reconciliations of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly-comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our current reports on Form 8-K, dated January 22, 2007 and April 20, 2007. These reports are available on our website at,   www.Pfizer.com   in the "For Investors SEC Filings by  Pfizer" section. And now, back to Jeff.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Amal. Hello everyone. Thank you for joining us today. With me are Vice Chairman, David Shedlarz; John LaMattina, our Head of Research and Development; Ian Read, Leader of Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations; General Counsel, Allen Waxman; Chief Financial Officer, Alan Levin; and Amal Naj, Head of Investor Relations.   

Before we get to your questions, I thought I would step back from the specifics of this morning's release and briefly give you my overall perspective on how things are going at  Pfizer. As we discussed in January, we've embarked on a sustained effort to fundamentally change every aspect of how  Pfizer does business, given both our challenges as a company and the rapidly-changing environment in which we operate.   

Our goal, of course, is to enhance total value for our shareholders and achieve future success. We're in the early stages of making these changes. We know we still have a lot to do, but I'm pleased to tell you we're making solid progress.   

In this context, I think it's really very noteworthy that  Pfizer colleagues delivered a very strong performance in a quarter that included the announcement and implementation of very significant and inherently disruptive changes in our Company. We achieved this performance even though we were up against nearly $850 million of reduced revenue in the United States for the quarter compared to the year-ago period, driven by the recent loss of exclusivity in the US for Norvasc, Zoloft and Zithromax.   

With the exception of Exubera, whose sales remained disappointing, our major patent-protected products posted strong sales. Lipitor sales were up 8% worldwide despite intense generic and branded competition. Sales of most of our other major products grew by double digits. And our performance this quarter also benefited from the favorable impact of foreign exchange and lower rebates.   

In addition, with regard to adjusted income, the early impact of our cost-cutting efforts, the increased focus on productivity throughout the organization, and the phasing of various R&D and promotional programs kept our costs essentially flat compared to the year-ago period. We also completed a major reduction and redeployment of our US sales force, announced and began the implementation of substantial position eliminations across all parts of the Company around the world and announced our intention to close five R&D and five manufacturing sites.   

Despite all of these changes and the inevitable uncertainties, anxieties and disruptions that they create, I'm proud to say that our colleagues kept their focus on performance and produced solid results. Their ability to do so in this environment gives me increasing confidence that we will be able to improve our near-term performance and achieve the fundamental changes in our Company necessary to increase long-term shareholder value.   

As it relates to the first quarter's performance, Lipitor was a positive contributor, posting solid sales growth, notwithstanding declining scrips. Given the market dynamics, we're expecting global Lipitor sales this year in the range of modest growth to modest decline. We're taking important steps to maximize the performance of Lipitor, and we will be glad to answer your questions on this during the Q&A.   

As for other major products, we're particularly excited by the early trends for Chantix, Sutent and Lyrica, all of which are currently exceeding our expectations at this relatively early stage of their lifecycles. On the other hand, Exubera is not where we had hoped it would be by this time. We still believe in the potential for this innovative medicine, and we're taking significant steps to make it successful while we continue to monitor its performance carefully. We will tell you more about those steps in the Q&A as well.   

An unexpected challenge this quarter was the adverse Court of Appeals ruling on our US patent for Norvasc, which effectively overruled three prior favorable lower court decisions. This ruling resulted in generic competition for Norvasc six months earlier than planned with a substantial revenue impact this year and a continuing but lesser impact next year. As a result of the effects of this decision, partially offset by more favorable foreign exchange, we've updated our revenue and earnings guidance for this year.   

For next year, our updated range for revenue reflects the uncertainty created by an adverse lower court ruling on our Lipitor patent in Canada that came down in late January. We believe the decision was wrong and we are vigorously appealing it. But it does present a revenue risk, which we have reflected in our top-line forecast range.   

But, otherwise, our expectations for 2008 remain largely on track, subject to the normal variability of key products, such as Lipitor, Exubera, and Chantix as well as the timing for approval of varicose fibromyalgia indication in the US. We remain optimistic that we will receive FDA approval for this important new Lyrica indication in the second half of this year.   

Importantly, we are reaffirming our earnings guidance for 2008 when we expect to achieve between $1.75 and $1.93 in reported diluted earnings per share and between $2.31 and $2.45 in adjusted diluted earnings per share. Beyond the numbers -- and this is very important to all of us here -- we remain on track to deliver on the priorities we had outlined in January, which are critical to driving  Pfizer's long-term performance and delivering value to our owners. I've spent a lot of time lately visiting different  Pfizer sites, and I have seen firsthand just how energized and committed our employees are to changing our Company and delivering on these priorities.   

The first of our five immediate priorities is to maximize short and long-term revenues. I've already mentioned the quarterly performance of our in-line and new products, and we're working hard to continue to improve the results from these medicines. Beyond our in-line products, we have the largest pipeline in our history with 249 programs currently underway. At the head of the pipeline is maraviroc, which upon approval, will represent the first new oral class of HIV medicines in more than a decade.   

We're particularly excited about our oncology pipeline, which holds a number of promising programs. We plan to demonstrate the breadth and depth of those programs in June when we present 49 abstracts covering 10 different oncology programs at the Annual Meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology.   

In addition, our focus on building medium to longer-term revenues includes our disciplined and focused approach to business development. We're stepping up the pace of these activities in an effort to gain access to new product candidates and technologies and pursue new revenue sources. We have signed more than 30 deals in the past 15 months, including most recently our first-quarter acquisitions of  BioRexis Pharmaceutical Corporation and [Ambrix]. We have a number of additional significant business development opportunities currently under consideration.   

Our second immediate priority is to establish a lower and more flexible cost base along with the continued implementation of our adapting to scale productivity initiatives that have helped keep down our expense growth. We've also begun the process of reducing our overall operating expenses, streamlining our infrastructure and reducing headcount. All of these efforts are directed toward our goal of delivering net cost reductions relative to 2006 levels of at least $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion in 2008 adjusted income.   

We not only want to be leaner, but we want to be quicker and smarter, so we can take advantage of the dynamic opportunities offered by our business. That's why our third immediate priority is to create smaller and more accountable operating units. So here's what we've accomplished so far on this priority since late January.   

As I've mentioned earlier, we finished the significant changes to the US sales organization that we announced in November with minimal disruption. The new, fully trained, fully deployed field force -- fully trained within their new structure -- and I've got to you from personal experience, incredibly energized -- hit the field in early April with their characteristic dedication and zeal.   

We've also completed the restructuring of our US commercial operations into individually-focused business units. I firmly believe that these changes, both in our field force and in our commercial structure, will produce improved performance over time.   

We've simplified our R&D organization and are consolidating our network of labs at four major sites. We have an extensive talent retention and recruitment effort underway for key colleagues affected by these changes. And we continue to reconfigure our global manufacturing network to better align plant capacity with anticipated demand, eliminate duplications and increase our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility. During the first quarter of 2007, we've announced the intended closure of five additional manufacturing facilities in the United States and in Europe.   

Our fourth immediate priority is to establish more collaborative relationships with doctors, patients, payers and other important stakeholders. To that end, one of the US business units we established this quarter is focused on working with payers, distributors, physicians, patients, and other key customer groups at very high levels of our respective organizations.   

I personally have been spending a considerable amount of time with key customers this quarter and will continue to do so. And I can tell you based on those meetings that I'm very optimistic that we have many opportunities to find new win-win solutions of working with our important customers.   

We're getting better about embracing new ideas from outside our Company. This quarter, we opened our R&D incubator in La Jolla, which is a good example of how we are reaching out to innovators to advance science and bring cutting-edge ideas closer to  Pfizer.

Our final priority, and in some ways the one that will establish the foundation for our success with all of the others, is to make  Pfizer a great place to work. We're well along in reducing the layers of management and decision-making that prevent our talented colleagues from making fast decisions, taking prudent risks and embracing personal accountability. I am gratified by the positive reception these steps have received across the organization, and I'm convinced that we will continue to move toward an environment in which each and every employee at  Pfizer feels that their work is valued and makes a difference and that they have an opportunity to grow to their fullest potential.   

Ultimately, all of our strategic priorities are of course designed to strengthen our financial performance and most importantly to enhance returns to our shareholders. Our strong cash flow enables us to finance our substantial dividend and pursue an aggressive share buyback program, while continuing to invest prudently in the business. In the first quarter of 2007, we made share purchases of $2.5 billion, on track with our plan to buy back up to $10 billion in stock this year.   

So, to summarize, we remain realistic about our challenges. We know that change won't happen overnight, but we're continuing to confront our challenges and more importantly our opportunities with a renewed sense of urgency throughout  Pfizer. I believe the organizational and cultural changes that are underway are taking hold throughout the Company and will position us to further improve on both our short and long-term performance. Our focus is on better execution, controlling costs, instilling greater accountability across the Company and making sure that we deliver the value our customers expect and the total shareholder return our owners deserve.   

Now, we would be happy to take your questions.   

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). David Risinger,  Merrill Lynch.

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I have a couple of questions. With respect to Lipitor, could you talk about the US sales performance in a little bit more detail? These sales rose faster than the TRxes, and the list price increase would indicate an -- I don't know if that was solely due to lower rebates, due to the movement of Lipitor into some Tier 3 spots or whether it was also due to some sort of inventory swing.   

Second, with respect to the numbers, it would be helpful just for you to frame for us the numbers that you've provided today. You beat the consensus by $0.11. But essentially, you lowered your '07 target by $0.11. So, it seems like you are implying a $0.22 reduction for the next three quarters to what the investors have been modeling. If you could just provide a little bit more color on that.   

Third, if you could please talk about the Lipitor patent challenge outlook in the EU. Thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: I will ask Ian Read to address the Lipitor question, your first question regarding sales versus scrips. I will ask David to describe the forecast for '07. And then of course, I will ask Allen Waxman to talk about the Lipitor patent situation. And you're asking about the EU; is that correct?   

DAVID RISINGER: Correct.   

IAN READ, LEADER, WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS, PFIZER: Look, I'd just first like to say that the performance of Lipitor globally was very impressive in the quarter, with 8% growth in a very competitive marketplace. Specifically with reference to the US, the net growth was most -- totally attributable to price, roundabout between 4% and 6% from our list price flowing through and favorability in rebates from 1% to 2%.   

The rebate favorability is in the case of Lipitor more of a onetime effect in the first quarter that we don't expect to see repeated through the rest of the year. In fact, rebates will start to move slightly negative as we continue our contracting strategy where we appropriately play off volume and price. So that's --   

DAVID RISINGER: I'm sorry to interrupt. But, why would it be just a onetime effect in the first quarter? Is that some anomaly year-over-year or--?   

IAN READ: Yes, it is. We have -- the rebates are complex. And with some business segments, the true-up is done on accrual, is done over a trailing-nine month period. So as we get the data in and we get the final information from the accounts, we true up the rebates.   

So, part of the favorability in the period for the rebates was that true-up and part was an adjustment of the accrual going forward. So that's why for the business as a total, there's no adverse impact post the first quarter for rebates. For Lipitor specifically, rebates will start to move slightly negative in the rest of the year.   

JEFF KINDLER: Dave, before we go to the other two questions, any further follow-up on that one?   

DAVID RISINGER: No. That's very helpful. Thank you.   

IAN READ: I think that's it.   

JEFF KINDLER: Dave, David Shedlarz will address the relationship between the first-quarter performance and the updated guidance for '07.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER: Yes, Dave, there are a host of factors that tend to impact the seasonality of performance during the course of the year. I think the most remarkable ones in addressing your particular question is first that expenditures have historically been relatively low in comparison to the remaining course of the year. And that's the case once again this year. It's the reason that you're seeing expenditures at a level characterized in the first quarter but at the same time a confirmation of the level of expenditures that we are forecasting for the full year, both in R&D and SI&A.   

Another factor in terms of the seasonality of performance, both for the top and bottom line, is that while the foreign exchange at current exchange rate is quite kind and in the first half of the year the comparisons become more difficult over the remaining course of the year. That tends to explain the variability in terms of the bottom-line performance in the Company going from quarter to quarter.   

JEFF KINDLER: Allen Waxman, if you want to address the Lipitor patent challenges in the European community?   

ALLEN WAXMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER: In Europe, our patent situation is pretty much going as we might have hoped. In Europe, the basic patent expires after enantiomer patent. We've had success on the basic patent. That expires in 2011. We are waiting certain decisions and trails in some of the jurisdictions. But, it is proceeding as we might have hoped.   

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Dave?   

DAVID RISINGER: Yes, just what are the top two jurisdictions to watch in Europe?   

JEFF KINDLER: Well, I certainly would point you to the UK where we did sustain our basic patent there. And I think that is a -- going to be a leader. We're still awaiting trials in places like Ireland and Spain. We currently have an injunction in place in Denmark and are awaiting resolution there. That is another small market, but I think that kind of gives a review of the situation.   

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin,  Morgan Stanley.

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: My question relates to Exubera and I'm trying to understand the disconnect. Obviously, we've seen that the scrips thus far have been pretty disappointing. But based on what Nektar has reported for Exubera manufacturing revenue last year and what they are expected to report for this year, the amount that they have made for you would -- this amount really sort of implies end market sales of about $1.5 billion. Obviously, scrip trends are sort of trending to 5 - $6 million.   

So I'm just wondering what the shelf life is on Exubera and what your contractual obligation is with Nektar. Because my understanding is that you are obligated to buy from Nektar throughout this year. But, what's going to happen in 2008 and how do you deal with this major disconnect? And then maybe you could also address what you plan to do to change the trajectory in scrip trends. Thanks. Hello?   

JEFF KINDLER: Hello?   

JAMI RUBIN: I missed you.   

JEFF KINDLER: We gave you all the answers.   

JAMI RUBIN: I don't know what happened.   

JEFF KINDLER: Had all the answers; you've got to do it all over again (multiple speakers) --   

JAMI RUBIN: I don't know if that was you or me. Did you hear my question?   

JEFF KINDLER: Yes, we heard your question. We had started to answer it and something happened. I apologize for that. Ian Read is going to answer your question.   

IAN READ: I will try again. I think you're seeing the lead lag between when we place orders and when Nektar has to produce. And obviously, we're ordering ahead. And we had issues in '06 to try and get our inventory/our production up to speed. So I think that explains the big difference you're seeing between the reporting between the two companies.   

The second issue of course is the fundamental one of growth in this market and returning -- or establishing growth for Exubera. And we had a limited launch in '06 as we've discussed and that had implications for our ability to commercialize the product in '06. We are now in a situation of, as I expressed in January, of full-court press on Exubera. We remain very committed to the product.   

The time in '06 was not -- we used it to really understand the market more fundamentally. It's an issue of market development with the GPs. This product is really positioned in Type 2 diabetics. It's an issue of getting insulin -- deficiency is the issue and not insulin resistance.   

So, the plan in '07 is to execute a solid plan, starting with a stable field force. So we now have the [Pratt] and Vista field force committed to Exubera. That's the first issue.   

The second is to understand that we need to use the field force on the why with the physicians and then other resources on how to use the device. That we've put in place, our diabetic educators and then our ramping up. And I think that will take care of the two big issues vis-a-vis Exubera.   

We will come into the market once we have had a satisfactory level of communication with the physicians with BTC in the second half when it's appropriate and when we feel it's the right time. I think you need to look at the development of this product towards the second half of this year, more towards the latter part when we expect to see solid growth in Exubera.   

JAMI RUBIN: At what point, though, Ian, do you say this -- it may not make sense to continue to invest in this opportunity? Are we still too early in that? Or do you have a period of time that you will make a decision about going forward with your commitment?   

IAN READ: Right now, I'm really focused on getting a solid development plan, a solid launch plan, committing the resources and watching the product grow.   

JEFF KINDLER: Next question please.   

OPERATOR: Mario Corso, Summer Street Research.   

MARIO CORSO, ANALYST, SUMMER STREET RESEARCH: 2 questions please. Number one, can you update the status of the Lipitor patent in the US? And then second, for Geodon, any sense of when the timing of the ZODIAC study results might be, the safety comparison with Zyprexa? And is  Pfizer working at all with the FDA to try to improve the label of Geodon? Thanks.   

JEFF KINDLER: Allen Waxman will take your first question with regard to the Lipitor US patent.   

ALLEN WAXMAN: So, we're very pleased to report that the Lipitor basic patent ran back in an attempt to take that to the Supreme Court was rejected by the Supreme Court. So we pretty much have locked in 2010.   

On the enantiomer patent, the 995 patent, that was the subject of the Court of Appeals decision raising a technical defect. We have now gone back to the patent and trademark office and filed our application and they are reviewing that application. And as that process unfolds, it's likely sometime soon there will be an initial office action. Very often in these kinds of situations when the initial office action comes out, they will reject some or all of the claims and begin a process of dialogue with the applicant, submitting additional information, having further discourse and back and forth.   

That process can take -- it's a very variable process. It can take upwards of two years. And so, it's hard to pinpoint exactly when that will come to any conclusion. But, the bottom line is that we continue to believe in the patentability of the 995 patent, and it is working its way through that process.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Allen. With regard, Mario, to your question on Geodon and the ZODIAC trial, I will turn it over to John LaMattina.   

JOHN LAMATTINA, HEAD, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: We expect the results of ZODIAC, Mario, to read out in fourth quarter of this year.   

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, next question.   

OPERATOR: Chris Shibutani,  JPMorgan.

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: A general question if I could. It seems that we're seeing this week results across the board in the US pharmaceutical business quite strong, particularly with regard to things such as pricing and net rebating. And I know that the focus has been on the discussion typically with your Lipitor business.   

Can you say anything more broadly about what you are observing? I think everyone has been a bit cautious about what the outlook and trends are, but it's coming in quite a bit stronger overall. Are there some things that you think from your dialogue with analysts and investors that we're perhaps missing out on or something to understand particularly as we think about next quarter and what everyone perceives to be the anniversaring effect so to speak right around mid year, particularly on the pricing and rebate side. It's just been stronger than I certainly was expecting.   

IAN READ: Yes, Chris, let me try and answer that. I think part of our first quarter was this true-up. If you look at the business outside of Lipitor and you look at the overall business, I think rebates as compared to the prior year will basically be flat. I don't see any big favorability on the rebates in the rest of '07, and there will be a trend I think towards them going somewhat slightly negative as we get more into the renegotiations of Medicare as it impacts '08.   

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: Is there any kind of category component? Should there be certain sort of product categories that you are seeing? For instance, there are some of the protected categories in Medicare Part D, the dual-eligible component. Is there anything unique that you think (multiple speakers)?   

IAN READ: I'm not seeing that. I'm not seeing that. I think you'll begin to see a merging of those categories as they take a more holistic look at the total contract on Medicare Part D.   

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: If I could follow it with just two quick pipeline questions. Lasofoxifene, I think you mentioned about a meeting early in '07 with the FDA. Has it occurred, any update there? And then on the needle-free influenza vaccine, back in the November meeting, you talked about trying to figure out when to start Phase III for influenza. An update there would be helpful. Thanks.   

JEFF KINDLER: John?   

JOHN LAMATTINA: In lasofoxifene, we will in all likelihood refile the NDA toward the end of this year. We're very upbeat with the results that we've seen with -- in the PEARL study on a three-year data cut. And we think we have a package that will alleviate a lot of concerns the FDA had in terms of risk/benefit.   

In terms of our flu program, we're moving that forward as quickly as possible, doing our best to try and have a program, capture the flu season that's upcoming starting again this year.   

JEFF KINDLER: Next question please.   

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Prudential Equity Group.   

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: I have a couple of questions. The first is actually going back to the rebate discussion. Just to clarify, did that sort of nine-month true-up occur with other products outside of Lipitor for the first quarter?   

IAN READ: Tim, yes. There was an impact for the total business and an impact by product.   

TIM ANDERSON: Ian, the second question is, of the 1 to 2% for Lipitor that you kind of had the improvement growth line, was that share based or access based?   

IAN READ: Sorry, I think I said there was a -- the net contribution to the growth of Lipitor was 7-8% in price, of which 4 to 6 came from price increases in the list price and 1 to 2% from rebates.   

TIM ANDERSON: And the 1 to 2%, you kept that back because you lost share during that period or because you actually lost access in Tier 2?   

IAN READ: No, that rebate is the part of the true-up that affected Lipitor of the total to the business. So it's mainly coming from the true-up of the accumulated rebating situation as we explained before.   

TIM ANDERSON: And then, just a bigger question, you mentioned that you are reorganizing internally by among other things having five separate commercial divisions. And I'm wondering if this is at all is a prelude to officially spinning out certain divisions? You talked about how actively  Pfizer management or the Board has looked at the possibility of splitting up the Company into different units that could actually be something like separately-traded entities like tracking stocks. I just don't know if that's ever a realistic possibility or not.   

JEFF KINDLER: Tim, we're not -- we have no plans to do that. Obviously, we think about all kinds of things all the time. We look at various scenarios. But at this time, we see no reason to do that. I'm actually very excited about the way this thing is working because I believe we're getting kind of the best of both worlds. These units are independent and autonomous to a degree in those areas where it makes sense for them to be. And yet, at the same time, they really get the benefit of the resources that a company our scale has to provide. And there are certain parts of the business where you would have diseconomies of scale if you truly split them up among different business units.   

So I think it's early days, and these business units have just begun. But I'm already seeing signs that they are really going to be very effective in on the one hand taking a tremendous amount of ownership for decisions pertaining to their business to which they have a very clear line of sight. They are closer to the customers. They are making decisions much more quickly. They are experimenting. They're taking risks. And yet, at the same time, they really are benefiting enormously from being part of the larger company because of all of the resources and expertise that we have across the Company that really does make sense to do it scale.   

And by the way, I would say the same thing about research and development. I think the same thing is true there. There are certain activities where increasing the independence and autonomy of the units, in this case, for example, possibly therapeutic areas in discovery make a lot of sense. But at the same time, you don't want every discovery unit to have its own high throughput screening organization or its own [pharm/sci] organization. So I really feel like we are putting something together here that will have the best of both worlds.   

OPERATOR: Roopesh Patel, UBS.   

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST, UBS: I'm still really confused on Lipitor. Reported sales were up 8%. Prescriptions in the US were down 8%. Ian, you mentioned that price and rebates helped by 5% to 8%. Are there any other factors that help explain the difference?   

And then separately, just a question on Lyrica. Market share growth seems to have flattened considerably over the past two to three quarters. I was wondering if you could comment on what's influencing that and whether or not you expect anything meaningful to change on that front until you get approval for the fibromyalgia indication.   

IAN READ: Let's take Lipitor first. So the net increase was explained by price. And inside the volume component, you look at the Rx evolution. You look at the units per scrip. You look at inventory movements. And especially in the first quarter, you look at unreconciled items to the -- between our database and the market database which tends to smooth out over the whole year.   

So inside that, there was a 3% positive contribution to growth for Lipitor from inventory movement that was specific to Lipitor. The overall division has no impact at all from inventory movements.   

ROOPESH PATEL: If I can just follow-up on that, is that 3% inventory expected to unwind in subsequent quarters or is it just an easy comp?   

IAN READ: We would expect it to -- if our inventories are stable, we would expect it to unwind over the full year.   

ALLEN WAXMAN: It wouldn't be -- it wouldn't contribute to growth in the remaining course of the year. So it's not going to "unwind" but it's not going to be a contributor going forward.   

IAN READ: So if you talk to Lyrica --   

JEFF KINDLER: Does that answer your question?   

ROOPESH PATEL: Yes, thanks.   

IAN READ: On Lyrica, we had a great quarter on Lyrica. We doubled the sales globally and in the US, a tremendous scrip growth, also a contribution from price. I think when you look at Lipitor's performance -- Lyrica's performance, sorry, there's a huge potential still in the market of DPN and PHN. On top of that, look at the scrips and look at the number of units per scrip. We're seeing significant growth in the number of units per scrip, up almost 20% in this quarter against prior quarters. So that's a fundamental factor in understanding the volume drivers with Lyrica.   

Then you are right. I think fibromyalgia is a major opportunity and one that we're excited in launching in the second half.   

JEFF KINDLER: Next question please.   

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, Banc of America.   

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Just a couple of quick questions. First, Lipitor in Canada, can you just remind us how large that business is and kind of your next steps from here on the patent? And I guess specifically, do you assume generic Lipitor in Canada in your '07 or in your '08 guidance?   

And then one quick pipeline question. Your thoughts on your CB1 here in obesity, I know there are some new dropped guidelines that came out last month. Any change to your Phase III because of that? And again, one of your competitors in this space said one of their biggest mistakes was not developing their CB1 as a diabetes agent. And I was wondering if that's an angle you are pursuing in Phase III.   

JEFF KINDLER: On the Lipitor Canada situation, Ian will talk about the size of the market. Allen will talk about the patent situation, and David will talk about the guidance for '08.   

IAN READ: Our sales of Lipitor in Canada range between 800 and $900 million.   

JEFF KINDLER: Allen?   

ALLEN WAXMAN: We have an appeal proceeding on the Ranbaxy case, which we received an adverse decision at the end of January. We also have an appeal proceeding on a Novopharm case which we won. Those appeals will move forward and we will get decisions probably in the third quarter or so. There are also regulatory matters still to be resolved that will -- there have been court cases recently on that. And those matters are likely to get resolved as the year progresses into the third and fourth quarter.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Chris, as it relates to the revenue guidance we gave you for '08, within the range that we gave you is the relevant range of uncertainty associated with the Lipitor patent in Canada. So we have included the consideration of that uncertainty. And in fact, that's one of the key drivers of the range.   

JEFF KINDLER: If I could just add to that, Chris, we're wanting to identify for you where we can risks and uncertainties that could affect the business. And the Lipitor Canada situation could range from a complete win and no generic competition. In which case, we would be moving up in that range or it could have the adverse effect. In which case, we would be obviously down in that range. So, it's an effort to identify that uncertainty in our forecast. John, would you like to address the CB1?   

JOHN LAMATTINA: Yes, on CB1, it's really not my place to comment on other companies' strategies and what they did or didn't do. I can say that in our program, we are in fact running one part of the Phase III study in a diabetic patient population.   

JEFF KINDLER: Next question please.   

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.   

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: I have two questions, first on fesoterodine. I was surprised to see the two-year delay. Could you amplify on the manufacturing issues that presumably will take so long to resolve?   

And then, secondly, given that  Pfizer has so many successes to feature, I was very surprised to see the words "vaccines" and "biotherapeutics" featured on the cover of your Annual Report, since these areas are of fairly small magnitude in your business now. I can only conclude that you'll make a dramatic and bold move in this area in 2007 as opposed to the incremental steps you are currently on. Otherwise, I would think that they really didn't deserve the level of attention they received in the Annual Report. Are there any thoughts you could provide on this issue?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: I will take the easy one, fesoterodine. Steve, it's largely reflective of our need to work with our partner in terms of making sure that they were able to supply commercial quantities in a reliable fashion and the lead-time -- there is a lead-time attendant to that. So this is just being realistic about where they are today and what they will need to do in order to comply with various regulations and at the same time for us to feel comfortable with their ability to supply on a consistent basis the material for commercial use.   

JEFF KINDLER: Steve, with regard to your second question, I wish we were thoughtful enough and careful enough to announce strategy through the pictures we happen to put on the cover of the Annual Report. We're not that clever. And I certainly wouldn't have intended for anything significant to have been read into that.   

Let me say, however, we have said in the past and I've said that we do want to become a player in biotherapeutics. And indeed, we already are to a large degree. We think in fact that some of our existing biotherapeutics capabilities and compounds in the pipeline are possibly under underappreciated. And over time, we want to provide more visibility into that so people appreciate what we're doing.   

And over a period of time, we hope to enhance those capabilities. And we have already announced various transactions, like the Rinat acquisition in San Francisco and other things that we're doing and will do over time to continue to enhance that capability. So, biotherapeutics is very important to the future, and that's over a period of time. And it's building on an existing capability that as I said I think is somewhat underappreciated as well as selective and thoughtful additional activities that would enhance that capability.   

OPERATOR: Tony Butler,  Lehman Brothers.

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: 2 questions again on Lipitor in Canada. David, you alluded to the range in revenues. But can I also -- even though you did reaffirm -- but can I also infer that the $2.31 to $2.45 would be intact even if in fact the 8 to $900 million swing goes to the negative side?   

And then second, much more of a broader question on transformation. Aspects that  Pfizer has historically not engaged in have been inventory management agreements. And I realize, Jeff, you have made comments about a transformation. I'm looking at every part of the business and I'm curious if in fact that is still  Pfizer stance and moreover if anything has changed with respect to how you look at your inventory out your door. And I say this really under the broader skills.   

As I just take a glance at what the distributors are doing today, it reminds me of a time prior to a number of companies announcing I.M.A. agreements. Their overall revenues are just being outside. So I'm curious how you are actually viewing this today versus perhaps how it was viewed in the past. Thanks.   

JEFF KINDLER: Tony, I will let David elaborate, but the short answer to your first question is yes. And he will elaborate on that and talk about the inventories.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes, in terms of the -- again, the relevant range -- our revenue does include what we believe is the uncertainty associated with the Lipitor patent in Canada. And yes, your observation is absolutely correct that the bottom line has not changed. And that does include that risk factor in terms of our projections of earnings per share. I think in part, that's reflective of our increasing confidence in terms of our ability to manage both the transformational efforts but also to leverage our operating expense flexibility at the same time.   

In terms of the inventory management relationship through the supply chain, obviously we continue to work with the distributors and wholesalers in that regard. If there are mutually beneficial types of arrangements that we can strike with the supply chain, we will. But it has to be on the basis of a benefit to the Company itself.   

JEFF KINDLER: Next question please.   

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.   

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Actually, I have a few questions. Just wondering if Dr. LaMattina, if you can update us on Phase III programs that may complete in the 2008 timeframe. Specifically one program is your JAK 3 inhibitor. If you can just update us on the status and timing of the Phase III transplant program and as well as the recruitment and how that's going in the RA program.   

Separately, if you could speak to whether  Pfizer is moving forward or not with the follow-up CETP inhibitors.   

And then finally, if the Company from a business development perspective and a research perspective can just speak to the fact that if you can just update us on your thoughts regarding the types of deals. We as investors know that there are Phase III cardiovascular products out there to potentially do deals with.  Pfizer is cash rich. And I'm still struck by the comments that were made earlier this year that  Pfizer may not have a product in cholesterol after the middle of the next decade. So, again, just if you can help us understand those issues.   

JEFF KINDLER: John, why don't you take the first two questions? I will make a comment on the third and see if Dave wants to elaborate.   

JOHN LAMATTINA: CETP inhibitors, we're not moving anything forward right now with backup compounds. I would say that we've been pretty struck by the imaging data that was seen quite frankly looking at the degree of HDL elevation that these patients had in these programs and seeing really no difference between Lipitor [totesterine] versus Lipitor has given us and I think a lot of other people out there cause for pause to try and understand the whole HDL hypothesis and the potential import that might have on a cardiovascular disease. So no, we're not moving anything forward there.   

In terms of JAK 3, I would say that I will partially answer your question. Yes, we're recruiting very well across all phases of our studies, particularly the RA study. But I'm not going to commit now to when we think we will complete the Phase III program.   

JEFF KINDLER: Regarding business development, obviously it's not prudent for us to telegraph areas that we might be looking at or thinking about doing. And I think the more responsible course is when we have something to announce, we will announce it.   

I will tell you that I must tell you that I've been extremely impressed by the effort that has gone into the revamping of our business development efforts here at the Company and the comprehensiveness and thoroughness with which we're reviewing the landscape. But, we're being thoughtful about it. At the same time, we're being creative and thinking about different things, like we want to be disciplined and prudent about it. We want to be strategic about it. And I just don't think it's very prudent to telegraph what we might be considering doing.   

Now, David, you want to say something differently about that, you are welcome to.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: No. Just a lot of things in the hopper and more to come.   

JEFF KINDLER: Next question please.   

OPERATOR: [Nathan Sedagy], Highside Capital Management.   

NATHAN SEDAGY, ANALYST, HIGHSIDE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: I actually -- I wasn't -- I might have missed it in the response earlier. But one of the earlier questioners asked about the specific -- about your specific Exubera purchase obligations in terms of just relative to the amount of inventory that you guys have right now.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Again, we don't get into the inner workings in terms of obligations. With a counterparty, I think Ian highlighted the fact you can't necessarily relate the volume of activity we're putting on our partners to the commercial volume for a whole host of reasons.   

JEFF KINDLER: Next question.   

OPERATOR: David Risinger,  Merrill Lynch.

DAVID RISINGER: My follow-up question has been asked. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Prudential Equity Group.   

TIM ANDERSON: Jeff, I asked you about splitting up the Company. Any comments about major M&A? A little over a year ago, management I think at the analyst meeting said no more big deals. And I'm wondering if that is still a relevant -- or if anything is on the table at this point downstream and poor [cetripib] not making it. Thank you.   

JEFF KINDLER: Well first of all -- and don't read anything into this -- I hope we never said no more, never, or anything categorical like that. We always have to be -- qualify anything we say in this arena by saying you know, you never say never and you look at business conditions and business opportunities as they go along and evaluate them. So, I would never be categorical like that and I hope I wasn't earlier.   

But having said that, we're fully aware of the pluses and minuses of large acquisitions. We've been through a couple of those in the last several years. And there may be a lot of different kinds of opportunities with smaller or medium-sized acquisitions or licensing activities and the like. And we're looking at a whole range of options.   

And as I indicated in the comments to Seamus, I think to telegraph anything we might want to do or think about at this point would not be prudent from the shareholders' point of view in terms of foreclosing our options or signaling to people what we might do. So all I can assure you, Tim, is that we're looking at the landscape very thoroughly, very comprehensively and very prudently. When we have anything to announce, you will hear about it.   

TIM ANDERSON: If I can sneak one in on Chantix, what is your Tier 2 unrestricted access now and where do you expect it to be a year from now?   

IAN READ: I don't have all the specifics, and I don't think we normally give out all that detail. Chantix was priced for a cash market. Reimbursement is a challenge. It continues to be a challenge, one that we're working long-term with payers. Two-thirds of I believe the volume is coming from the cash market, so it will be involving reimbursement situation.   

JEFF KINDLER: We have time for one more question and there's one more question. So go ahead please.   

OPERATOR: [Craig Baskin],  Putnam Investments.

CRAIG BASKIN, ANALYST, PUTNAM INVESTMENTS: I'm afraid I didn't understand the response to an earlier question trying to reconcile the earnings beat in the first quarter with the earning -- bringing down earnings guidance for the year. So I was hoping maybe David could repeat his answer a little bit more slowly so I could follow it.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Sure. Actually two questions in that regard. In terms of bringing down earnings guidance for the year, you have two major players at work -- one, the unfortunate situation in '07 of losing the patent position on Norvasc. And that in and of itself probably would've brought down earnings per share by about $0.13. That's being partially offset by favorable foreign exchange as well as a slightly lower effective tax rate. So that's what kind of driving the $0.10 change in the range.   

In terms of the seasonality of the performance of the Company, especially at the bottom line, there are two key factors at work -- one, the natural seasonalization of expenditures quarter by quarter. If you take a look at the level of expenditures in the first quarter relative to the targets we've given you for the full year for R&D and SI&A, implicit in that is an increase in the level of expenditures as we get programs up and moving.   

And there's a second factor that relates to foreign exchange in comparison to the prior year, is kind in the first half and not so kind in the second half. Those are the key factors in terms of the seasonality of performance, especially at the bottom line.   

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, David. I'm informed there are no more callers on the line. So that concludes our call. I thank you all for your interest and time. Enjoy the rest of your day and your weekend.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070427e34k0015q
  


 HD
 Q3  2006  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
14,859 words
   PD
19 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Amal Naj, Vice President of Investor Development, you may now begin.  

AMAL NAJ, IR, PFIZER: Good afternoon. Welcome to Pfizer's third-quarter 2006 conference call and webcast. In order to allow adequate time for your questions, we are extending this conference call by 30 minutes and will complete the call at 1:30 PM instead of 1:00.  

   TD
Before we begin, we need to remind you that this discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results will differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2005 annual report on Form 10-K and in our report on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. Also, we will be discussing financial and other information as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K dated October 19th, 2006. These reports are on our web site at  www.Pfizer.com  under the title For Investors -- SEC Filings by Pfizer.  

And now, Jeff Kindler, CEO of Pfizer.  

JEFF KINDLER, CEO, PFIZER: Hello, everyone, thank you for joining us today. With me are Vice Chairman, David Shedlarz; President of Global Research and Development, John LaMattina; President of Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations, Ian Read; and a number of other members of our senior management.  

When I became CEO of Pfizer 2.5 months ago, it was obvious that the Pfizer Board wanted management to take a fresh look at our business and the environment in which we operate. We set out to do just that and started by asking three questions -- how do our investors, customers and employees see us; how do we see ourselves; and what is the reality of our business situation?  

To answer the first two questions, we spent a considerable amount of time listening to as many members of these constituencies as we could, both inside and outside the Company. It was remarkable consistency in what everyone had to say about Pfizer. The world around us is changing dramatically at an ever-increasing speed. As a result, Pfizer faces exciting new opportunities, as well as tough challenges, and our company needs to move quickly to respond to the realities of the changing environment so that we can overcome those challenges and fully exploit those opportunities. That is of course fully consistent with my own view and I'd like to tell you some of the steps we have started to take to move from understanding that reality to taking action, action to embrace the necessary changes and turn them to our advantage on behalf of our owners and everyone else with a stake in our future.  

As you know, the first thing we did was put in place a new management team. I am absolutely delighted that David Shedlarz has assumed a number of new and important responsibilities. David brings strategic insight, years of experience in our industry and many important accomplishments achieved during his distinguished career at Pfizer. David's responsibilities now include manufacturing, financing, finance and three new streamlined groups critical to our future -- strategic planning, business development and licensing, as well as technology. David will speak to this in a moment, but the overall objective here and a very important one is to accelerate our search for new revenue opportunities that will complement our pipeline and drive long-term growth.  

To underscore the fact that science and medicine are at the heart of everything we do, John LaMattina, who has provided strong leadership of our global R&D operations, and Joe Feczko, our Chief Medical Officer, now report directly to me. This allows me and the rest of our leadership team to get much closer to the scientific and medical activities and decisions that will determine our future.  

Ian Read, the new leader of our Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations, brings almost 30 years of operating experience to his new job. What is especially relevant is Ian's experience in Europe and other tough markets with pricing pressures, generic competition and governments facing more and more challenges in paying for quality health care.  

We also reported Peter Brandt head of our Pharmaceutical business in the U.S. Peter brings 28 years of experience, outstanding financial and analytical skills and a deep understanding of the market to his new post.  

The new head of European Pharmaceuticals is Pedro Lichtinger, who did an excellent job growing our Animal Health business with an emphasis on product innovation, efficiency and customer relations.  

This team is very competitive. They combine extensive experience, a deep understanding of our markets and the realities of our operating environment, a relentless focus on getting absolutely everything we can from our major in-line products, as well as driving the growth of our newer products, and a profound commitment to generating an increasingly successful new product stream through both internal and external sources.  

Immediately upon forming this team a little over two months ago, we undertook a candid and thorough review of both the environment in which we operate and the state of our business. We well understand that we face a rapidly-changing environment that presents both opportunities and challenges.  

Regarding opportunities, we are very optimistic that demand for what we do will continue to grow as science explores new frontiers and better informs patients with longer lives in which they expect to remain healthy and active. On the other hand, we know that physicians are facing challenges to their autonomy and that payers, whether commercial entities or governments, are seeking to constrain access and pricing.  

As for our business outlook, let's be realistic. Right now, we're facing a pretty tough operating environment. In the near term, we are continuing to navigate through a period in which we face loss of exclusivity on major products and in which our new products, as exciting as their potential is, cannot entirely offset these lost sales. We face pricing pressures around the world, as well as strong competition, most notably in the stat market here in the United States.  

(indiscernible) a lot more details on our financial outlook, but the key point on our revenues is that for all of the reasons I have outlined, our revenue growth will be constrained in the short-term. If that is the reality, and it is, than for an investor in Pfizer, there's only one question that really matters -- what exactly is Pfizer going to do, both in the short- and the long-term to respond aggressively and effectively to these forces so that I get a good return on my investment? Today, I'm going to limit myself to some very broad comments on some of the ways we are approaching that question, but I can assure you that our leadership team formed a little over two months ago is hard at work with a strong sense of urgency, developing a very robust set of concrete and specific action plans. These plans will be fully developed and adopted in the 2007 operating plan process that is currently underway and it will be concluded at the end of the year. We will share with you the particulars, our specific plans, metrics, milestones and expectations at the time of our fourth-quarter release in January.  

Of course, research and development is a central element of our plans and key to our future. On November 30 at our R&D analyst day, we will provide you with a review of our current pipeline and our near-, mid- and long-term product opportunities, and we will describe the actions we have taken, are taking and will take going forward to continue to improve R&D productivity.  

In addition to internal R&D, we are dramatically revamping our approach to licensing and business development under David's leadership, bringing previously separate functions together so that all the resources and capabilities necessary to evaluate and secure these opportunities worldwide are now in one place. This group will have overall responsibility for co-promotion and licensing agreements, investments in new technologies and the acquisition of promising new products and services from outside the Company. David will tell you more about this in a few moments and we will have further details regarding our plans and expectations on November 30th.  

We are excited about the products and services that our R&D organization and our new licensing and business development will produce and the contribution these new assets will ultimately make to our revenue growth. But as I stated earlier, in the very near-term, revenue growth is constrained. Accordingly, we must and we will take aggressive actions on costs.  

The first step in that area is to deliver on our adapting to scale commitments, and we will do so. Adapting to scale, which has been underway for over a year, is now on track to achieve $2.5 billion in savings this year. As you know, our overall goal is $4 billion in annual savings by 2008. This represents important progress in reducing our costs as has also allowed us to reallocate funds to our core product support and development efforts. But it's now time to go beyond ATS to a broader transformation of how we invest in our business and manage our costs. We need to look at all aspects of our business, and in the process, drive lasting change and improved efficiency through every part of our company, as well as seek ways to achieve those savings as quickly as possible. A leaner organization with a more efficient and flexible cost structure is a crucial step toward transforming Pfizer, making us more competitive and increasing shareholder returns. This will be a thoughtful exercise, not arbitrary, across-the-board cuts, but focused on areas where we can do things more efficiently without sacrificing effectiveness; and more importantly, without precluding us from making the investments we need to make to ultimately grow the Company.  

Again, we'll provide additional details on our direction and strategy in January, but I want you to know that as our team takes on this task, there will be no sacred cows. Everything is on the table.  

In addition to looking at our absolute costs, we will closely examine our cost structure. The key here is flexibility. Over the coming years, we must be able to quickly shift our resources based on our needs and our opportunities in today's fast-moving markets. As a first step toward creating a leaner and more flexible cost base, we're reducing layers in bureaucracy across the Company. We have already eliminated numerous committees and cross-functional groups that were slowing us down and that don't have a place in a Company that needs to change as fast as we do, and we will continue to streamline the Company. Consider this -- some Pfizer colleagues have as many as 14 layers between themselves and the top of the Company. That is clearly way too many. Pfizer colleagues themselves have made it clear to me that we need to fix this, and we will.  

Now let me be very clear -- the results of these activities will be to reduce 2007 operating expenses to a level below that of 2006 and then further reduce 2008 operating expenses, all at current exchange rates. Moreover, our objective is not simply to achieve a onetime reduction in costs. Going forward, Pfizer will be a Company that focuses on continuous improvement and ongoing productivity increases in a very rigorous and systematic way. We will constantly work at making our business as simple and streamlined as possible. We will be agile, we will be fast, we will be innovative and entrepreneurial.  

We know we need to become the kind Company that I've described. The realities of our business and operating environment require that we become that kind of Company. Our colleagues want to work in that kind of Company and our owners deserve that kind of Company.  

Our financial position allows us to do all of this while continuing to invest in the future growth of our business, as well as focusing on total shareholder return through dividends and buybacks, as David will shortly elaborate.  

Our team has got a lot done in the last 11 weeks, and that reflects the sense of urgency we have for making the changes that we need to make in order to succeed, to be honest with ourselves about what we need to do and more fast about the business of doing it.  

I also want to add that I've been enormously gratified by the response of our colleagues. They know, as well as you and I do, that we need to change, and they welcome the opportunity to make the changes.  

So let me summarize. We see the world around us dramatically and we see the job in front of us just as clearly to accelerate the scope and speed of our changes so that we build value for our shareholders and meet the expectations of everyone with a stake in our future. I see enormous opportunities for Pfizer in the years ahead as the demand for what we do grows and more and more people come to understand the value of what we do. What we do makes a difference in this society and millions of patients depend on us for new treatments and for help in fighting the battle against diseases that are taking lives, too many lives, every day. This is a company with enormous resources built to compete and a fierce desire to win. We have immediate challenges, to be sure, but we will need that. We will emerge leaner and more agile, focused on growth and taking path-breaking science and turning it into breakthrough medicines. We know we what we need to do and I'm very confident in our future. Now, let me turn it over to David.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER: Thank you, Jeff, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm personally excited about the opportunity to help lead the effort to transform our company. We are committed to leaving no stone unturned as we look hard at all aspects of our operations, from seizing opportunities to grow our business to restructuring our cost base to become more flexible and agile.  

As Jeff outlined, our senior leadership team has spent the last few weeks undertaking an intense, in-depth assessment of the state of our business, both the challenges and opportunities, and we are developing detailed plans that respond directly to what we (indiscernible). However, (indiscernible) [well], and in some areas you'll want and deserve more detail than we have at this moment. Please note, we're committed to providing a much greater level of detail following the completion of our annual operating plan we produced at our January analyst meeting.  

Today, we reported a solid third quarter with continued growth in our in-line and new products which will help you to partially offset the significant loss of exclusivity in some of our major products. Lipitor posted sales of $3.3 billion, up 15%. Celebrex posted sales $537 million, up 20%. Lyrica worldwide sales reached $340 million in the third quarter. Revenue growth of 9% total was bolstered by several unusual events in the U.S., including a reversal of the sale deduction accrual related to a favorable resolution in a pricing dispute with a government agency, and an increase in the U.S. wholesaler inventories to normal levels, compared to slightly lower than normal levels in June of this year which favorably impacted many of our products. Collectively, these factors amounted to 4 of 9 percentage points of revenue growth in the third quarter.  

On the expense side, our operating expenses were 6% in the third quarter from a year ago. The increase reflects our investments in R&D, licensing and promotional activities, partially offset by the cost savings from our current web-based productivity program, known as ATS, of more than $600 million.  

The fourth quarter will be an unusual quarter for us. Expect to see a decline in revenues in comparison to the prior year, reflecting the first full quarter of exclusivity in the U.S. for Zoloft. We expect higher operating expenses in the fourth quarter, reflecting various timing of promotional and research programs, again, partially offset by the continued realization of ATS savings.  

Having said that, we remain on track to meet our projected full-year financial guidance with revenues comparable to 2005 and adjusted diluted earnings per share of about $2.00.  

Looking ahead we have great opportunity (inaudible - background noise) promise and the science and technology of pharmaceutical research. With an aging population expecting to live longer and healthier lives, there will be a growing demand for our products and services. And, we're excited about the prospects of our new products, as well as those we intend to generate internally to (indiscernible).  

At the same time, we continue to face a number of near-term challenges. We're navigating through the loss of exclusivity on several major products. Many of our products continue to face small competition, including generics in key markets. Our regulatory and pricing environments have created added challenges. And very recently, we have seen the strength today with the U.S. dollar, as well as actions on access and pricing taken by influential decision makers in several large European markets. As a result, we're now expecting revenues in 2007 and 2008 to be comparable to 2006, as compared to our previous forecast of modest revenue growth for this period.  

We are not, as you might expect, satisfied with this result, the product of an unprecedented loss of exclusivity on major in-line products over a multi-year time frame. We're committed to doing what's necessary to return to revenue growth in [2009], as well as maximize our total shareholder return, both in the short- and long-term. We will focus on growing our key in-line products, while ensuring rapid acceptance of new products, but are also intensifying our business development efforts to bolster the revenue potential of our pipeline in the coming years.  

At the same time, we're taking a hard look at our cost base. We continue to expect, as Jeff mentioned, ATS savings of about $4 billion in 2008. Our experience to date indicates we are achieving our productivity goals under this program more quickly than previously anticipated. In fact, ATS savings this year will now approximate $2.5 billion, $0.5 billion ahead of our current year goal.  

In addition to these savings, we plan to implement a new cost restructuring program over and above these ATS savings that will reduce 2007 operating expenses to the level below that of 2006, and further reduce 2008 operating expenses at current exchange rates. We are still at the initial stages of assessing the scope and depth of this new restructuring, as you can well appreciate. Given the large number of moving parts and the fact that we're in the middle of our operating plan review, I think it is too soon to put a precise number against this new initiative. But, we are looking hard as all aspects of our operations become more flexible and agile.  

We also remain intensely focused on increasing our shareholder return. With the benefit of our major saving initiatives, we continue to expect to generate average annual growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share in the high-single digits over 2007 and 2008, notwithstanding the challenges in our operating environment. We are also capitalizing on our full range of financial flexibility to supplement earnings per share growth with a commitment to continue to support dividend growth, as well as a robust level of stock repurchase activity, up to $17 billion in the period 2006 and 2007.  

Another key part of our strategy is acquiring new products and technologies to supplement our organic growth. Our new Worldwide Business Development and Licensing Group will be responsible for harnessing the power of our development efforts to seize opportunities quickly while also ensuring disciplined capital allocation. We have named Dr. Ed Harrigan, a senior Pfizer executive with a background in medicine, clinical development and regulatory affairs, to head this unit, as well as expand and accelerate our efforts.  

We will be launching a new business development strategy in the Company in the coming months that is focused, disciplined and targeted at a number of select growth areas, such as biologics, oncology, Alzheimer's disease, vaccines and other products and services that provide health care solutions that help reduce payers' costs and get us more involved in better serving our patients. We plan to provide a lot more about our R&D and business development strategies at our analyst R&D day on November 30th in Groton, Connecticut.  

In this quarter alone, we entered into a licensing agreement with TransTech to develop and commercialize small and large molecules for Alzheimer's disease, diabetes and possible treatments for cancer and inflammation. This investment demonstrates our commitment to complement our organic growth in CNS and other therapeutic areas. Also in the third quarter, we reached a licensing agreement with Quark Biotech for exclusive worldwide rights to a novel human gene and to molecules for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration. This investment highlights our commitment to grow our biotherapeutics franchise. And in October, we reached an agreement to acquire PowderMed Ltd., a UK company specializing in the emerging science of DNA-based vaccines for the treatment of influenza and chronic viral diseases. This is a major strategic move on our part and it will give us our first entry into the human vaccine market which will help address a very critical and vast public health issue.  

Over the coming years, we will continue to build this business through internal growth and strategic acquisitions and through establishing a range of collaborations with leading academics.  

We have also launched a number of products that (indiscernible) our medical infrastructure and knowledge in a way that provides us health care solutions that help reduce payers' cost and get us more involved in better serving the patient. Our focus on expanding our value proposition with innovative patient support is working very well through Chantix, our new smoking cessation medicine. Our behavioral modification program essentially wrapped around the medicine is key to tapping the enormous potential of this market where 500 million people today will eventually die from a smoking-related illness.  

These are the examples of our strive to going forward and rest assured, there will be a lot more.  

Before we take your questions, let me emphasize just a few key points. First, we do get it. We recognize the reality of the current operating environment and are committed to transforming (indiscernible) company to succeed in this environment. To do this, we will focus our energies on reviving our top-line growth by maximizing the performance of our in-line products, increasing the productivity and value of our current product pipeline and aggressively pursuing opportunities to [consummate] our internal research efforts with licensing, acquisitions and new business development.  

In addition, we will take significant action to improve our cost and efficiency and flexibility. We will pursue additional restructuring as well as instill a culture of continuous improvement to ensure (indiscernible) that is agile and lean as possible. And, we will maximize total shareholder return by driving high-single-digit adjusted diluted earnings-per-share growth on average over the period of 2007 and 2008 that complement our bottom-line performance with a continued commitment to shareholder values with increased dividends and stock (indiscernible).  

Thank you for your time this afternoon, and let me now turn it back to Jeff.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you very much, David, and now, we would be happy to answer your questions.  

OPERATOR: Roopesh Patel, UBS.  

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST, UBS: I have two questions; first on cost of sales. The press release describes that the pressure seen in this quarter is partly due to inventory reduction initiatives and plant rationalization. I was wondering if you could roughly quantify this impact and confirm if this is a onetime effect this quarter, or is this expected to affect forthcoming quarters as well. And then separately, on Lipitor, I was just wondering if you could help us with the math to reconcile the 19% growth seen in the U.S. this quarter. Was the 3% decline seen in prescription growth during the quarter? Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: I'm going to refer the first question to our Chief Financial Officer, Alan Levin, and the second to Peter Brandt, the head of our U.S. business.  

ALAN LEVIN, CFO, PFIZER: So on cost of sales, the two principal drivers in our growth are foreign exchange and the adverse impact of foreign exchange in the quarter, coupled with the impact of our inventory rationalization. The bulk of it was really foreign-exchange driven in the third quarter. Both factors will continue into the fourth quarter, but the mix will shift somewhat, and we would expect to see more coming from the inventory rationalization initiatives as we get into the latter part of the year.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Alan. Peter?  

PETER BRANDT, HEAD OF PHARMACEUTICAL BUSINESS, U.S., PFIZER: In terms of the U.S. Lipitor performance, one of the issues that we have in the third quarter of this year is something that we have highlighted in previous calls where when you walk through all the component pieces of how you get to the ultimate net revenue increase in a given product, sometimes there are dislocations in the data points. And by the time you get through this point in the year, most of those dislocations have worked their way out of the system.  

And so if you look at third quarter year-to-date for Lipitor, that is indeed the case. So if you allow me, let me walk through those numbers, and then I will get back to the third quarter in and of itself. So on a year-to-date basis through three quarters, TRXs are down 1% for Lipitor in the U.S. Then, if you look at the combined impact of the number of pills per prescription, as well as wholesaler inventory movement, that's down another 1% in the U.S. Then you add to that the benefit of moving up the dosage scale from the 10 milligrams to the 20s and the 40s and the 80s; that gives us 3 percentage points of growth. Then, we have a pricing impact which is a combination of our list price increases, as well as changes in rebates. And that adds 10% to the equation. So when you walk through those four component pieces, you come up with 11% growth, which is exactly where we are on a year-to-date basis for Lipitor.  

When you're looking at the third quarter in and of itself, there is about a 7%, if you will, unexplained difference that, again, is kind of the result of these swings from one quarter to another of each of these independent data points that, as I said a moment ago, by the time you get to the third quarter year-to-date, has worked its way out of the system.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Peter. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Chris Shibutani, JP Morgan.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Could you provide us with a little better sense for the term average high-single-digit growth that you used? Is there any way for us to get a sense for when you expect an acceleration into '08? If I take this $2.00 base number and play with anywhere from a 6% to 9% growth number, take this to a 2008 estimate that's obviously quite above where the street is currently, even as much as $0.15 above. So can you give us some sense for the shape of that inflection?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Chris, I think it's an excellent question, but I'd ask your indulgence until January. I think this is a perfect question. I think we feel very comfortable with the high-single digits over this time frame. I'm not sure there's going to be dramatic difference in terms of the level of growth, but that's something we would like to confirm before we go officially out with that. So I think the January time frame is the best time to deal with that.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: If I could follow up on a vaccines question. There certainly seems to be more body language about that, particularly the recent deal. I think previous comments from management have talked about capabilities, but in the animal business. Can you characterize more precisely about what you think the scale of that business could be for Pfizer going forward?  

JEFF KINDLER: Well, I think it's a little early to say anything about what the potential long-term scale is. I think what's important is that we're committed to entering into this business, and this was just the first step toward doing that. We're going to build this business, both through internal capabilities and external sourcing, like the PowderMed deal, and we're committed to building this business in the long run. I think it's premature to try to put a size around it, but as we go forward, we'll try to give you a sense of that. But I think the important news is that we're strategically committed to this business.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Merrill Lynch.  

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I have three questions. First, with respect to torcetrapib, there were some statements on page 9 that I just wanted you to clarify. You commented that this upcoming study that will be presented at AHA includes 437 patients, and the study primarily investigated the drug's lipid efficacy and safety. And then in the next sentence, you state that the study met its primary efficacy objectives, but you didn't comment at all on safety. So maybe I should let John LaMattina address that first.  

JOHN LAMATTINA, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL R&D, PFIZER: Sure. There's really is nothing unusual to say on the safety. Basically, these are patients who have very difficult lipid levels to treat, and the data we've gotten back has been very encouraging, and there's no real new news on the safety front. So everything keeps going there. No unexpected results either on blood pressure or on any unusual side effect along the way.  

We highlighted that in the press release, simply because that is going to be presented at the American Heart Association meeting in November, and I believe the abstract itself will appear on their web site on October 30th. And usually, we try not to preempt that too much for obvious reasons.  

DAVID RISINGER: And when you say nothing unusual blood pressure, what do you mean by that?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: We keep saying all along that everything we have seen in Phase II, a 2- to 3-millimeter mercury increase, is consistent.  

DAVID RISINGER: Okay. And then in terms of the other question, changing yours to Norvasc, obviously there's been a negative ruling against Norvasc in the last 24 hours or so. I guess could you just comment on your assumption for Norvasc exclusivity in 2007? The patent expires in March, it seems like there could be a launch after that patent expires in March, even though there's pediatric exclusivity. And then my final question is, with respect to your comment about European actions on access in price in the EU, I understand there's limited access to Exubera, for example, but I'm really more interested in more color on actions on price in the EU. Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Dave. It gives me great pleasure to pass a legal question onto somebody else for a change, so I will turn the first question over to Allen Waxman and the second to Ian Read.  

ALLEN WAXMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER: So with respect to Norvasc, with pediatric exclusivity, we're still maintaining a September 2007 launch of exclusivity for the product. As I think you know, we have a trial coming up in November with Mylan on the besylate patent. We have won two similar cases against Epitex and Synthon and we feel very good about that case.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Allen. And, Ian, on the European decisions?  

IAN READ, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE PHARMACEUTICAL OPERATIONS, PFIZER: With regards to Europe, you have -- their comment are growing quite slowly across Europe, and if you look at two products principally, it's Lipitor and Celebrex, most of their pricing focus is there. So Lipitor, we've been very successful post Invastatin, growing ex-Germany like 19% a year, compounded with Germany 8, and the governments are now looking at their budgets and really beginning to try and take a hard look at what they are willing to pay, and we're seeing forced price reductions in France and Italy and in the UK, a push towards increasing the amount of generic statins being used. So that has moderated our expectations on Lipitor in Europe. And Celebrex, the label presently in Europe is not as favorable and the United States. The government is questioning the value equation and they're asking for pricing reductions.  

DAVID RISINGER: Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you Dave. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: John Boris, Bear Stearns.  

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Thanks for taking my questions. I just have two. On your 8% or your return to guidance for top-line growth in 2008, can you just comment if that's inclusive or exclusive of acquisitions? And then any thoughts, Jeff, on your appetite for small tuck-in versus larger type acquisitions going forward? And then just one financial question on cash flow. If you could just tell me what your cash flow was in the quarter and for the first nine months?  

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, well let me start with the first question. I think you meant '09, in terms of --.  

JOHN BORIS: Or '09, right.  

JEFF KINDLER: And I think what's happening here, John, as you know, is we're in the middle of a significant period of losses of exclusivity, and we come out of that by and large at the end of '08 and put that behind us. So that's the year in which the very strong performance that we're seeing in the underlying business regarding the in-line of new products that are not subject to loss of exclusivity; they get greater visibility in '09, and that's why we anticipate returning to growth. Whether that growth can be even greater than we might otherwise expect as a result of acquisition activity, that's certainly something that we want to try to accomplish. And that's the goal all along of trying to find the revenue opportunities, both inside and outside the Company, which I guess leads me to your second question regarding small versus large. We're looking at everything. But what I think what's important to emphasize is that we want to make strategic acquisitions. We want to do things that actually add to our product opportunities and that make sense from the point of view of growing the business. We are not interested in just doing acquisitions for their own sake, and we're going to look across the board at everything that can possibly contribute to long-term growth from a strategic perspective. I guess I'll turn the cash flow question over to Alan.  

ALAN LEVIN: So cash flow from operations for the first half of the year was about $9.1 billion. We are tracking very consistently with our guidance to have about $16 billion or more in cash flow -- I'm sorry -- in cash flow from operations this year. The quarter, we're still finalizing our balance sheet, which is a gaiting step on this, but it was about $3.5 billion this quarter.  

JOHN BORIS: Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you John. Next question.  

OPERATOR: [Michael Castor], [FIO] Capital.  

MICHAEL CASTOR, ANALYST, FIO CAPITAL.: I recall at the UBS conference, David said that he was not anticipating any more unusual or non-GAAP charges with the restructuring program, so I'm looking forward to seeing that come through, but a financial question. The tax rate as I look over the past couple of quarters has hovered up from where it was at the annual tax rate and the full-year tax rate looks like it's going to be lower, largely because of the first-quarter anomaly. Going forward, what do you see the tax progressing towards?  

ALAN LEVIN: Well, we see -- we continue to forecast on an adjusted basis the 22.5% tax rate for 2006. We are right now in the middle of our planning cycle, so we're still evaluating the mix of revenues and profits by market. We're also looking at some changes in the legislative environment that -- and the potential impact on us. So at this point, it's premature, but I would say that our baseline assumption is that we would be with that number probably with some upward possibility, but still to be determined.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Michael. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Mario Corso, Summer Street Research.  

MARIO CORSO, ANALYST, SUMMER STREET RESEARCH: In terms of Lipitor, I'm just trying to reconcile a couple of the comments that were made and that appear in the press release. In terms of full-year sales still in the $13 billion range, and then you think about the third-quarter number where it was said a minute ago, there was this kind of unexplained 7%, which I calculate might amount to $140 million. So should that number be thought about as reducing the fourth-quarter number, or is that a number that brought things back to kind of baseline as we head into the fourth quarter?  

And then in terms of torcetrapib, in terms of change at the Company, and I know there will be more talk about change in R&D I'm sure at the R&D day, but in terms of approach and backup molecules, for example with torcetrapib, with a side effect issue, we can debate whether it's unimportant, or unimportant in terms of blood pressure, for example, and the fact that backup molecules at Pfizer or that other companies are working on may have a more potent LDL lowering capability, in which case that may be the basis for approval of the drug perhaps on a quicker timeline than for torcetrapib. I'm just wondering what the thinking is on the backup molecule concept with respect to torcetrapib, or even just generally? Thanks.  

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. Mario, I'm going to the first question regarding Lipitor over to Ian Read.  

IAN READ: So the movement in Lipitor in the fourth quarter restored inventories to their normal level, so we do not expect any impact in the fourth quarter from that.  

JEFF KINDLER: Regarding torcetrapib, let me just make a comment, and then I will turn it over to John. We're obviously very excited about the possibility of torcetrapib, but I think what's really important to understand is that we think of this as CETP franchise, and we do have backup compounds and you will hear a lot more about that at the November meeting. But I think the way we need to be thinking about this, this is a franchise. We believe that this mechanism of action makes a lot of sense and we're investing in it, and obviously others seem to think so as well. And so, that's that I think the better way to look at the whole question, but I will let John elaborate.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: You have answered -- you've taken the words out of my mouth.  

JEFF KINDLER: Sorry.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: No, not a problem, so I think you answered it correctly, and on November 30th, we'll talk about our franchise in regard to torcetrapib, (indiscernible) in combination. Torcetrapib is a stand-alone agent and the next-generation compound's in our pipeline.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Mario. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, Banc of America.  

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: I have two questions. Now that you have a few quarters data kind behind you, can you comment on the impact that one of the large PBMs moving Lipitor and some other products to Tier 3 has had on your business? Are those accounts actually potentially more profitable with the lack of rebating outweighing volume losses? And the second question just with regards to the guidance. We had (indiscernible) beat consensus this quarter. We have the ATS program coming ahead of expectations. Interested in why that guidance is still staying at $2.00. It seems to be implying kind of $0.35 in fourth quarter earnings, which is down 30% year-over-year. Should we be viewing that as kind of a conservative target right now, or what am I missing there? Thanks.  

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Chris, I'm going to ask Peter to address the first question and David to address the second question.  

PETER BRANDT: On your question about Lipitor with some of the accounts, what we see in our numbers third quarter year-to-date, you see the offsetting impacts, and we think the net is positive to us. In other words, we went through before that we have on a year-to-date basis a pricing impact of 10%, which is made up again of the list price increase, as well as changes in rebates. The change in rebate part of this is positive because we're paying fewer rebates; i.e., those accounts where we don't have those contracts. On the other side of the equity, we have a TRX decline of 1%, and so we do believe that there has been obviously some lost volume in a decision like that. Our calculations would indicate for us that the net of the two, the price savings against the decline in prescriptions has been a positive one.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Peter. David, you want to respond to the point about the $2.00?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes. Chris, I think it's fair to say, number one, we're very confident in our adjusted diluted earnings-per-share target of approximately $2.00. In terms of the third and fourth quarter, the fourth quarter unfortunately suffers from a number of factors. One, the first full quarter with the loss of exclusivity on Zoloft and also an increase in expenditures which almost seems to be a religion around here at Pfizer, build-up in (indiscernible) towards the end of the year. And in fairness, it's largely reflective on our plan of actions which happened early in the year. We kind of built up the level of activity consistent with that. So we are very comfortable with the quarter. It's not too far off where we thought we would be in terms of the fourth quarter and it's the combination of expenses in Zoloft, which is tempering the performance in the fourth quarter of this year.  

CHRIS SCHOTT: Thanks.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Chris. Next question please.  

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Prudential.  

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: A few questions. On torcetrapib with the IVIS and IMT trials coming out in March, are you still guiding that a filing in the U.S. would occur in September '07, which is what has been the previous guidance? And in a similar sense, your forecast for '07 and '08 EPS is obviously built on various assumptions. So what is the assumption for U.S. approval timing of torcetrapib in those numbers? And, is it plausible to think that a realistic best-case scenario would entail torcetrapib launching in the U.S. in 2008?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: So, a few things here. First of all, as you said, the imaging studies come down and will be published or presented in March at the American College of American Cardiology meeting. And just so the record is straight, both the IVIS studies as well as top line reports on the carotid artery imaging as well will be presented there. I've been asked on occasion -- so what is your internal cutoff? If you see a certain amount of atherosclerotic regression, do you file then or what? We actually have no internal set right now. What we're hoping for is to see a major change in athlerosclerotic lesion sides and plaque makeups. And furthermore, looking at not just our own views, but we will probably tap on some key opinion leaders.  

At this stage though, our anticipation is, the compound will work and we will file with the FDA. Now our purpose in filing is to get these data in front of the FDA, to get their view on the imaging studies and their relationship to the progression/regression of athlerosclerotic. As I've said before, the FDA has made it very clear that they are not bound to approval on imaging alone, and our interest [date] as well and the morbidity/mortality studies, which we won't read out until late 2009. Now I'm going through this depth of answer, Tim, because of the nature of your question. We will file sometime in '07. I can't promise the exact date, but certainly towards the end of 2007. Our filing does not, however, anticipate a one-year approval for this compound because the FDA has never agreed to approval on imaging alone. This will get the dialogue going. And obviously if we see is a spectacular result, and I cannot define for you what spectacular is. A lot will depend what their reading is, as well as the complete package of other data, not just imaging, but also the other affects that we see, will then determine their position on whether they feel they need to have the M&M study as well. So the bottom line is, see the data in March. We would file in a finite period after that, but that filing should not signal to anybody whether or not a one-year approval is in the offing.  

TIM ANDERSON: So is I could just continue on that. So if you had really positive efficacy, would it at all -- it seems to me like it would be -- it then comes down to a balance between efficacy and safety of the drug. And my understanding is that FDA is reasonably inclined to accept imaging studies as adequate for approval, contingent on the balance of efficacy versus safety. So while it's not in your guidance, which I think is what you're saying, it still is a realistic kind of better-case scenario. Is that correct?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Correct.  

TIM ANDERSON: And then if I could, one question on Lipitor, which is -- my understanding is that most companies are far along in their managed care contracting for '07. So with that being said, with your goal of 70% unrestricted Tier 2 access, I'm wondering if you can give any idea for what you might have to give up on price to get that access? Are we talking about low-single-digit price erosion, or high-single-digit, or no erosion, or what exactly?  

JEFF KINDLER: Well, let me just say, Tim, I don't think we're going to get into specifics about the contract-by-contract strategies. That's all case-by-case basis, and for obvious competitive reasons, we don't get into that.  

TIM ANDERSON: Okay, and then the last question, a quick one, same topic. It has to do with -- in your opinion, are plans moving toward the single brand in Tier 2 in the cholesterol market in '07, or do you think you'll see the majority of plans that have more than one brand in Tier 2?  

JEFF KINDLER: Peter?  

PETER BRANDT: I think there's still going to be more than one brands by and large in most of the Tier 2 structures.  

TIM ANDERSON: Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Tim. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Morgan Stanley.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Just a follow-up on a couple of those questions on torcetrapib. So the plan is, whatever the data is, you're going to file. But then, when and how will you communicate to investors as to whether or not FDA will accept that filing for approval?  

Secondly, on Lipitor, you broke down the price contribution, which was 10%, including both annual price increases and the reduction of rebates. Shouldn't we assume that a lot of those benefits of reduced rebates will go away in 2007. And how should we think about that?  

And my third series of questions relates to Exubera. Just didn't see any sales, actual sales recorded in the press release. So, if you could shed some light on that, because I know sales have been in Europe for several months now. I'm just curious to know your thoughts on what extent the lackluster scrip growth is a reflection of logistical challenges that you highlighted in the press release or lack of patient demand. And also noted that you plan to go to the primary care market in January, a couple of months later than anticipated. What lessons have you learned form the endo, the specialist community, that you plan to apply to the primary care community? Thanks.  

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Jami, so I think we have TA question, a Lipitor question and Exubera -- a couple of questions, if I tracked all. So let me ask John to take on the (multiple speakers) -- excuse me; Joe Feczko will respond about the filing.  

JOE FECZKO, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, PFIZER: I think you start out by saying, we'll file no matter what. Well it will depend on the data because we have to have a clear signal from the imaging studies that -- to really warrant a filing. But having said that, if we -- when we file, the FDA takes 45 to 60 days to review the dossier to accept it for filing and review, not necessarily for approval. So, if they do accept for filing and review, then that starts their -- it means that their clock has started. So there would be usually a 10-month action of some kind, either -- and I'm thinking that's an action, but necessarily an approval. So once we file, we'll know within 60 days whether the dossier is adequate for a review. And then you can take the clock from there.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I think in answer to your question, Jami, I think because of the importance of this compound, we'd be pretty public about our decision to file and what the FDA is -- whether the clock has started, et cetera. So I think that would be something that we would be very transparent about.  

JEFF KINDLER: Ian, on Lipitor, and then Exubera.  

IAN READ: To answer your Lipitor question, I would just like to emphasize, we have taken a very realistic look at this market and we have sort of seen three major trends in the marketplace. One is really robust TRX growth in the U.S., around 13% to 14%. We see new guidelines coming lowering LDL targets. And at the same time, we obviously see a more competitive situation with significant penetration of generic stains as they get Tier 1 status. The generics have captured a 45% share of new patient initiations to date. So while we expect the share to grow, we do not believe they will achieve the significant share levels as forecasted by many.  

So when we look at that and we look at Lipitor, we're confident that Lipitor will grow next year, and we believe that because we're looking at a very flexible, yet responsible, approach to our contracting, going customer by customer and maintaining Tier 2 access. So right now, we're at about 70% the Tier 2 access between commercial and Medicare, and we project to stay at 70% access. By securing Tier 2 access, this really levels the playing field so our representatives can do their jobs and leverage Lipitor's compelling body of clinical evidence for physicians that are effectively treating patients to new guidelines. These guidelines recently issued by the AHA and the ACC all recommend that high-risk patients bring their LDL levels below 70. So while we expect generic Cystatin to have an increasing penetration in this market, fewer and fewer patients are able to reach their goals using simvastatin. So on balance, we think we have a strategy that allows us flexibility in a responsible manner around our contracting where our stabilization of patient volume and growth in patient volume will compensate for any price effect. Add that to our DTC campaign, the new lipid levels, and we think we see growth in Lipitor next year.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you. Ian, you want to address the Exubera questions?  

IAN READ: I'd like Peter to address that.  

PETER BRANDT: Sure. Jami, I think the question you asked was -- what lessons learned during the period of time that we've been out with the endocrinologists and [divertologists] that we're going to be applying to the general practitioner setting? And I think it's a couple of things and I think there were very much in line with our thoughts as we rolled it out to the endos and to the divertologists. One is the need to not just educate the physician about Exubera and all the benefits it brings and what patient portfolio or patient type is best suited for Exubera, but it's also the need to engage diabetes educators as well as the entire office staff in that process. Each and every part of the health care system that is just referred to - and I'm sorry, in addition to that, the pharmacist as well. Each and every part of the health care system is going to be asked questions about Exubera by the patient population. Now the other part of the equation obviously then is having a patient support system, whereby patients can also call in or get answers to any of the questions they may have about the product or the device in and of itself too and making sure that that is as patient-friendly and as operational 24/7 as possible. On a more specific level at a physician level, one of the things that we have found is well worth taking the time to go through is the difference between international units and milligrams. But that once it's well understand then you're back into understanding the basics of how to in essence dose insulin.  

JEFF KINDLER: Jami, you specifically asked why you didn't see sales, and the answer is really related directly to what Peter just said. This was a very staged an thought-through rollout, and the initial target was quite small, deliberately so.  

Okay, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.  

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, LEERINK SWANN: Thank you. I actually my question was on Chantix, and I guess I have a few questions here, one on Chantix. Can you just explain how we should be thinking about that on a cost level? It sounds like the gross profit would seem like it would be quite strong on this, but it sounds like you're doing a lot of -- there's a lot of support work going on. But can you also comment on your expectations for the trajectory of the launch? We saw that you were doing roughly 45,000 in TRX and in the last week of the quarter, which I think might be surprising to some. So can you just kind of give us your comments on the trajectory there? Can you also let us know when you're planning to kick off a DTC campaign for Exubera? Is that kind of a six-months post launch, 12-months post launch? Will we see that in January? Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Ian, Chantix, and then PTC on Exubera.  

IAN READ: Well we're excited as you are about the introduction of Chantix and its initial reaction in the marketplace, but I would just like to give you a couple of dynamics for the marketplace before we talk about future growth.  

The market has two aspects. One is smoking cessation in the prescription market is small; and two, we know in this marketplace with previous launches that there can be a rapid uptake followed by a steep decline due in large part to (indiscernible) expectations of quit rates. So our (indiscernible) plan is to deal with that. Our focus of Chantix is on building the brand in the market over time, setting the right expectations, getting -- educating physicians on the chronic nature or relapsing nature of nicotine addiction and the importance of pharmacological and behavioral support. So for patients, this means finding the smokers that are ready to quit and providing them with Chantix and get [quit support planned. So, we go to our projections, we continue to see robust growth next year for Chantix due to the level of support we're putting behind it in the marketplace.  

I think reimbursement is an issue in the marketplace. Today, only about 25% of lives are covered. Over time, we think our policy, our (indiscernible) consumers will expand the (inaudible). So we remain very optimistic around Chantix.  

JEFF KINDLER: The second question was DTC for Exubera. Peter?  

PETER BRANDT: I think, as part of our ongoing commitment that for any new products, there is a period of approximately six months where we think it's highly important and the right thing to do to basically spend all of our efforts educating the physician and the health care communities about these products before we engage in any form of direct-to-consumer advertising. So we're following the same pattern with Exubera.  

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: So that means we'll see -- we should expect to see Exubera advertising starting early next year?  

PETER BRANDT: Well, we're in the process of analyzing what we think that might look like, and so it is not a given at this point that we would be engaging in Exubera DTC advertising. It is certainly under consideration.  

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). James Kelly, Goldman Sachs.  

JAMES KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I had two questions. I had one first on torcetrapib and then another one on the cost-cutting initiatives. First on torcetrapib and the data disclosure, is there a potential that, given as you close up the database, that you may have to release some headline data on this product, or really is the first tome we're going to hear about the rustles in the imaging studies going to be at the American College of Cardiology? And just as a follow-on, I would ask Dr. LaMattina to just clarify what he said about the FDA and how he expects the dialogue to progress after a filing is given. Is it going to be potentially a standard one-year review? There seems to be a little confusion on that. And then secondly on the cost-cutting side, David, a tight control on cost has been a very important part of how Pfizer has looked at it for while now, and I'm interested in a little bit more about what is truly different this time around. Help us get our arms around it. Was it before just making [an] organization smaller, but now it's actually making them flatter? And whatever else goes along with that would be helpful.  

JEFF KINDLER: Okay, Jim, John will answer the first question, and if you don't mind, I'm going to take the first shot at the second, then David can supplement it. John, go ahead.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Sure. On the disclosure, this is going to be -- this is -- these results are going to be kept in strict secrecy I guess, including from most of Pfizer colleagues. That's the agreement we have with Dr. [Nissan] as IVIS, as well as the other studies. So as result, the first anybody will be hearing of this will be in the March ATC meeting. Usually when it comes to efficacy, you wouldn't hear anything ahead of time. The only thing would be I guess if there was a negative safety single, that might be something we'd have to be public on. But for the most part, the first time many of us will hear about this will be at the March ACC meeting across the hall at the IVIS studies -- IVIS and imaging studies.  

On what kind of review to expect, I don't -- we can't really predict that. So much right now is uncertain as to -- well, first of all, any efficacy; two, degree of efficacy, it may have less efficacy, and obviously, most of us are hoping to see spectacular results, but I think that would [discern] the nature of the level of review by the FDA, and we don't have (inaudible) anything like that now.  

JEFF KINDLER: You know, Jim, I thought I would ma few comments about the cost-cutting, and if you can indulge me a minute, I want to start by talking about ATS and then explain why we're doing this and why this is different. ATS was basically a product of the Warner-Lambert and Pharmacia integrations. The first phase of those integrations was to bring those companies into ours, and then review those combined businesses, and ATS was ultimately a part of rationalizing what we had there. And the focus was on ensuring that we reallocated the expenses of those combined businesses form lower value-added activities to those that directly support product development and product sales and invest in the future growth of our business. And there was lots of hard and very successful work by people across the Company to produce terrific results. And in fact, ATS has eliminated duplicative and unnecessary cost and has as intended allowed us to reinvest the savings and growing the business. And we would complete it, and as David mentioned, we're actually tracking ahead of schedule on that.  

But what we're talking about now in terms of cost reductions is really quite different, and we're going well beyond ATS. So, first, why we are doing this? Well, as I mentioned, the operating environment is changing, the business has great opportunities, but also tough challenges. We get that. But what it means is, we have to transform the way we to business. We need to actually lower our cost base, spend less next year and less the year after that. We have to make the cost structure flexible so that we can respond very quickly and with as little disruption as possible to the opportunities that we have ahead. And, we need to look at everything we do and find ways of doing it better, faster, more efficiently, more effectively. And I want to emphasize that we're not going to stop with onetime cost cuts. The idea here is to build a culture of continuous improvement in which every employee looks for ways to improve our productivity every day. And the result is going to be a more efficient, nimble organization that can address challenges and exploit opportunities more effectively as we go forward.  

Now I have to tell you, I'm very confident we can do this for a number of reasons. We're a very big company with operations all over the world. There's lots of opportunity. I know from experience elsewhere in my career that there's always an infinite capacity to do things better and to find more ways of doing things more efficiently and effectively. And maybe most importantly, I've been really gratified by the responses of our colleagues, even as recently as this morning in terms of the e-mails that I've been getting. Our employees know we need to do this, they're ready to do this. They see the importance and the value of it and I'm very confident that we will do it.  

So that's my way of trying to articulate why we're doing this and why it's different from ATS. I don't know if David you want to add anything to that.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: No, that's perfect.  

JAMES KELLY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Lehman Brothers.  

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you very much, a couple of very brief questions, one again on Exubera. Has the status of rep incentives to detail Exubera actually changed in January '07 when the rollout broadens? And secondly, on a product-related question, we have always assumed that the CNS franchise efforts at Pfizer have been, I don't know, maybe you would call them a sacred cow, but important let's say. So what is being done following the Indiplon results and the most recent asenapin news, given that Zoloft is now gone, Aricept and Geodon are effectively all that's there, albeit Relpax is treading water? How are you looking to augment that effort, or is that something that's still up for change? Thanks.  

PETER BRANDT: On the Exubera question, we won't go into to specifics on exactly how we incentivize or compensate our representatives, but at the heart of your question, there is a very good point in that, as we have said, we had a very targeted launch that went out to a little over 5000 endocrinologists and divertologists, and we incentivized our field force appropriately. In other words, it wasn't -- they were incentivized to educate as opposed to drive volume because we're going to be driving more of the volume out of the next wave of our rollout going to the GP community. And so that will obviously then be reflected in a change in how we will compensate our representatives.  

JEFF KINDLER: John, do you want to address the CNS?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Sure. I think, Tony, that's a very perceptive observation in fact, and we're going to talk a little bit about this on R&D day, but let me give you a couple of headlines. One, actually it's one of the key therapeutic areas we will highlight there because there are a couple of different themes. One is the theme of price it to make good use some of the items that David talked about earlier in terms of having some capital to invest in and trying to pick a key area like Alzheimer's disease where we thought there was some exciting things happening on the (indiscernible) and TransTech, which we have been able to bring in, and that's pretty good.  

We also, I think people appreciate, this is a very tough area. CNS diseases still are clinically very difficult to develop new compounds for because of the nature right now of exams and looking at the progress, and we're trying to improve that as well with various -- bringing imaging techniques to the fore, but that's taking some time. But having said that, I think we'll talk a little bit about some new efforts in schizophrenia that we have ongoing, as well as sleep in our own laboratories to complement what we're doing on the outside with places like [Rinat]. And I think we'll have a pretty compelling story for the future of CNS research and development that (indiscernible).  

TONY BUTLER: Thanks very much.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Tony. Next question.  

OPERATOR: [David Chan], [Genison].  

DAVID CHAN, ANALYST, GENISON: I just have two little follow-ups. For the torcetrapib, even if the [shocker or shocker] that didn't reduce plaque at all, you wouldn't make an announcements until the ACC. And then second, I just want to confirm, you -- there was a recent conference where the lunch speaker said some of the contracts don't actually guarantee a particular tier, just that you wouldn't be disadvantaged. And so she went on to suggest then they would -- some of these payers would move all branded statins to the third tier, and yet they would still collect rebates. That sounded a little preposterous to me, but can you just confirm that that's not the case?  

JEFF KINDLER: John?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: David, in all honesty, the results are held in secrecy, both (inaudible - background noise) reasons. So, yes, we will not know about this or have -- say anything until Dr. [Nissin] and the other investigators stand up at the March ACC and give those revelations. So, obviously, again, I'm hoping shock to shock as you describe it won't occur. But even if that were the case, that will be revealed at that meeting in March.  

JEFF KINDLER: Peter?  

PETER BRANDT: In terms of your Lipitor Tier 2 versus Tier 3, I can confirm that that is indeed not the case. We are still negotiating and quite optimistic that we will be able to retain the same level of Tier 2 access for that product that we currently enjoy.  

DAVID CHAN: Thanks.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, David. Next question please.  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). [Matthew Cullen], [TSW].  

MATTHEW CULLEN, ANALYST, TSW: Thank you for taking my call. Just a question about expenses. You talked about the average -- or the level of expenses going down in '07 and further in '08. Would it be safe to say that R&D could still go up in those periods? To get to sort of your top-line goals, I would think you would still want to invest in the business. And then, secondly, obviously, the sale of consumer health care business fetched a pretty good price. Jeff, as you've looked at the businesses these past 11 weeks, are there any obvious candidates for divestiture? Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Well, Matthew, you need to know that as you were asking your first question, John LaMattina had practically jumped out of his chair with joy. Of course we're going to invest in R&D, as well as in the business development that I talked about, as well as in the promotion and marketing of our in-line and new products. That's the future of the business and we are going to invest and we're going to grow.  

Having said that, I think we have opportunities to nevertheless reduce our cost space. We're a very big company. We're operating at a very large scale and there's always opportunities to find more efficiencies in less value-added activities in order to allow us to invest in growth and in the future. And I have said from the day I got this job that this company is about science and it's about providing medicines to patients. And those two things are at the heart of our business and we're going to invest in them both as we go forward. But at the same time, we're going to be very disciplined about how we allocate capital, and we're going to be very disciplined about how we spend our owners' money. And I believe that we're in the fortune position of having the financial capacity to do all of these things and I'm very comfortable that we have the opportunity to both lower overall costs, continue to invest in the future of the business as well as the present product line, and at the same time maximize total shareholder return in the ways that we've described.  

MATTHEW CULLEN: So conceptually, R&D dollars will still grow, but at a slower rate?  

JEFF KINDLER: I am not, Matthew, going to get into because we haven't really made all of these decisions yet. As I said, we're right now in the process of reviewing that. So I don't want to put any numbers out there, projections or growth rates or anything like that. There are opportunities to reduce costs across the business, and I think even John would acknowledge, there's opportunities in parts of R&D to reduce cost. But at that the same time, there is an obligation to invest in the growth in the future of the business and we're going to do that. John I think wants to add something.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: First, I want to assure to everyone that I'm not related to Matthew Cullen, but I like him very much. I would also add, and one of the things I will do on November 30th to give you some concrete examples of the advantages of scale, not just in terms of being able to do things, but also being able to do things far more efficiently, and I'm talking dramatic on hundreds of millions of dollars scale which enables us to do a whole lot more with less if not similar amounts of budget. So I suspect that that will be on the minds of people and that's why we'll address it as well on R&D day.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Matthew, one of the key points here in terms of the transformation, and this is not just about lowering cost space for the Company, but enhancing the productivity of what we're looking to do. And so, we are looking to spend less and get more out of it at the same time. Also understand, all parts of the Company, including R&D, there are support costs that we should be taking a hard look at, and they range anywhere from facilities costs to information technology costs. So there's no part of the Company that we're not going to look for enhanced productivity, but also opportunities to make sure we're distributing the expenditures that we do have and the high-value activities.  

JEFF KINDLER: Matthew, I will answer your next question, I just want to underscore that in many ways we're lucky as a company that we have such significant financial flexibility that does permit us both to find the opportunities to reduce costs on a net basis, but at the same time continue to invest in the growth of the business, and that's what we're all about.  

Regarding potential divestitures, we're certainly not intending to do that. We took a hard look at our animal health business at the same time that we reviewed the consumer health business and concluded that it is a core part of our company. It benefits vary significantly in a way that frankly consumer did not from its relationship to our manufacturing and R&D organizations. And so animal health is very much a part of our business.  

Next question please.  

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen.  

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN: First, a follow-up. Is a substantial reduction in the sales force a possibility in an effort to achieve the goal of a reduction in operating expenses? Secondly, when Pfizer first gave the 2006 revenue guidance, was the $170 million accrual dispute reversal contemplated at that point? And in Q3, did that equate to $170 million of operating income as well? And then lastly, is there a venue for the results of the lead trial in Lipitor in Alzheimer's disease?  

JEFF KINDLER: Okay. I'm sorry, Steve, I was writing down the second and third question and forgot the first. The answer is, everything is on the table. We're looking at every aspect of our business, looking for ways to do it better, more effectively, more efficiently, and as I said earlier, there are no sacred cows. Regarding the next question, about the accrual, I will turn it over to Alan Levin.  

ALAN LEVIN: So at the time at the beginning of the year, this was not included in our budgeted plan. We do have a fairly broad portfolio. There are lot of moving parts and throughout the year, we usually see both things that move positively and things that move negatively against our original plans. But all told, we continue to confirm our guidance of revenues this year comparable to 2005.  

JEFF KINDLER: And regarding a venue for the look the Lipitor study, Joe Feczko.  

JOE FECZKO: You're aware, there's a couple of studies actually going on, and the first study that was going on was this study [ADCLT], and that's -- preliminary results on that were some of the noise around statins having an effect on Alzheimer's has been produced, but that's on ongoing study. The lead that actually is going to go on all throughout '07. So we haven't determined a venue yet for presentation of those results, but we don't anticipate the results coming out until towards the end of next year.  

STEVE SCALA: Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thanks, Steve, next question please.  

OPERATOR: Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Swann.  

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: Actually, this is a question on torcetrapib, thank you for taking the question. But just wondering in there are going to be any event analysis incorporated into the presentation at the ACC? You have 3000 patients in the trial, and every time we go to an FDA panel with some of these event trials, we always seem to get the event data on the back end. I'm just wondering if you are aggregating an adjudication committee to take a look at events that gets presented and we don't have any back-end surprises.  

JEFF KINDLER: I'll let Joe take that question.  

JOE FECZKO: None of these trials were actually powered to look at events, and by events, we're always talking here about, but the adjudicated morbidity and mortality. They were really, they were all powered on, even though there was a couple of thousand patients, they're all powered just to look at the changes in (indiscernible). The study that really has that is -- and you need more numbers, because all of these trials, don't forget, they're [torvastatin] versus torcetrapib, plus the torvastatin. So we have a pretty tough comparator in there. So the only way to get any kind of a reasonable fix on the endpoints is then the morbidity/mortality trial. (indiscernible) we had about 15,000 patients enrolled. So there's a magnitude of difference in the size of these trials we're talking about, so we're not going to have anything that's meaningful for these hard endpoints.  

SEAMUS FERNANDEZ: Right, but the question I guess was more directionally, there will be, one would I think that there would be hard endpoints that occurred in those studies, and at least from a safety perspective, now as we kind of look at a safety conscious FDA and a blood pressure signal that we know exists at least, one would argue that I think people will want to know what specifically worthy events at least so that we can not necessarily say that this is definitely reducing events, but that it definitely isn't increasing events?  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I'll just further up with Joe's response, and that is, I think -- the point is, this is being compared to Lipitor itself, so to see a difference between one and the other in a relatively small, even though it's a total of 3000 between the three trials, would be unlikely unless there was something dramatic either way. But as Joe said, because you have the positive comparator with Lipitor and because these are patients being rigorously treated, it's unlikely (indiscernible). But, we will have the data and the data -- that data will be presented. But whether how meaningful it would be in terms of the actual outcome, he's right, you need M&M.  

OPERATOR: George Grofik, Citigroup.  

GEORGE GROFIK, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking my question. Just a quick follow-up on torcetrapib and the Illuminate study. Since it is an event-driven study, is that still tracking for 2009 completion? Thank you.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Keep in mind that it's an event-driven study and you have to have a certain number of deaths in there, and we can't -- they will occur or not occur. So it's a prediction as to when that will happen, and that's a long way to say, yes, we think it's still late 2009.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you very much, George. Next question.  

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Merrill Lynch.  

DAVID RISINGER: I had two questions with respect to torcetrapib. The first is, with respect to the disclosure, is it new news that you have this agreement with Dr. Nissin not to release any data until March ACC? It was my impression from having talked to some investors that [meant] with prior management that prior management suggested that, given the importance of this data to Pfizer, that there could possibly be a press release ahead of ACC. So I'm just wondering if the agreement with Dr. Nissin is something new in the past several months. And then separately, with respect to the data, I understand that there are thousands and thousands of patients in your Phase III program beyond the imaging studies. Can you tell us more about those other studies, those other lipid comparison studies, maybe drug contraction studies, et cetera, and when we're going to see that data? Thank you.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: So I don't remember being present at anything where we said we would issue a press release ahead of time. This has, in my view, always been the case of, because these results are so important, because of the importance, not just (indiscernible) that the plan was ACC and that, unless we knew with the ACC that we would have the data in place and do it in time that it would be handled in that way. So if there has been some miscommunication on data, David, I apologize. I just don't know where it come (inaudible). So there would not be a press release until probably around the time, certainly the day we're announcing studies, and I can't remember if it comes out at 8:00 or 4:00 or however that will be, but sometime on that day.  

On the second question, yes, there are a lot of other studies going on. One that has been alluded to already this afternoon has been the [heterozygous] study in FH patients that is going to read out American Heart Association meeting, and there will be others of those, once those studies complete and we have the data in hand. And, obviously, we would expect that these -- we would hope that these trials would confirm what we've seen in Phase II with dramatic effects on both HDL and LDL and support that in different patient populations. So homozygous patients is another. That's A lot smaller, rarer disorder, but we'll have at some point publish on that as well as other studies.  

JEFF KINDLER: I am informed there are no more callers on the line. We appear to have exhausted you, so thanks. (multiple speakers).  

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Morgan Stanley.  

JAMI RUBIN: Thank you. I don't want to beat a dead horse, but I think this is really important. I just want to make sure that this is not new news, but you had said that you now expect a torcetrapib review to take longer than one year. Is that different from your earlier expectation? And secondly, and I think the question was asked but I'm not sure it was answered, does the 2009 guidance for revenue acceleration depend on torcetrapib on the market by 2009? Thanks.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Let me deal with the first one, Jami. And so, I don't think it's new news. So you have a couple of things happening here. You have a situation where you're filing an NDA, but not necessarily in a situation like you may have an NDA for oncology where you have a clear result that the FDA has agreed to already. In order to get the dialogue going, we have to get the data, we have to file the package and it has to be reviewed. We have not been given any -- and this is pretty consistent. I think we've said this all along, that the FDA has been clear that approval on imaging is not a guarantee. In fact, it's pretty iffy. So a lot depends on what the imaging looks like and the nature of the effect.  

So we're really doing for lack of a better term a major biological experiment here where the outcome could have all sorts of parameters. Two of the three studies could be widely positive and one could be neutral. And so it's hard, and if I was in the FDA's position, I would probably take the same view, and that is, until we see the data and what it looks like, it's hard to make a commitment as to what would the approval want. This is new medicine, new endpoints. And like in imaging, it's still and it's interesting in a lot of ways. In five or 10 years, that may not be the case, so that shouldn't be new news. We have said all along that approval on imaging is not a guarantee, but we have to file in order to be able to start the dialogue and to get the conversation [understanding] going. So that's always been the case. And that's why we've been pretty transparent about the importance of the M&M study and when that's going to appear. Year.  

JAMI RUBIN: And the question about guidance for '09 revenues?  

ALAN LEVIN: Jami, as it relates to 2009 and return to growth, at that point in time, it is not dependent upon the availability of torcetrapib. What it is a function of is continued growth of in-line and the performance of new products and the fact we're getting (indiscernible) through, the goal is of negative impact of loss of exclusivity. And unfortunately, that's certain on both fronts, both in terms of its impact, but also in terms of the fact that it will run its course.  

JAMI RUBIN: Okay, thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER: Thank you, Jami. I think that wraps it up for today. Thank you all for joining us and good afternoon.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061102e2aj001e5
  


 HD
 Q2  2006  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,959 words
   PD
20 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Dr. McKinnell, you may begin.  

HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER INC.: Hello, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's conference call and webcast to discuss second-quarter 2006 earnings. Our call today comes from two continents. I am in China, and our two other introductory speakers today, David Shedlarz and Karen Katen, are in New York. Other Pfizer leaders are gathered in New York and elsewhere to answer your questions.  

   TD
As we noted in our media release today, Pfizer delivered strong second-quarter results, driven largely by the performance of Lipitor, Geodon, Celebrex and Lyrica. Our performance exceeded your consensus estimates and our expectations. Our outlook for the year improved, and consequently we are raising our estimate of 2006 adjusted diluted earnings per share.  

This was certainly a landmark quarter in terms of major announcements, the largest of which was the agreement to sell our Consumer Healthcare division for $16.6 billion to Johnson & Johnson. Beyond that announcement, the news this quarter is that Pfizer is getting it done, moving through a series of new product launches, overcoming patent expirations and focusing squarely on human and animal health. We are working our way through the pivotal years where the Pfizer we built in the 1990s fades away and the next-generation Pfizer takes shape. The promise of this next-generation Pfizer is best viewed through the lens of our company's main activities this week and next.  

On Monday, we assembled the Pfizer representatives who will be introducing Exubera inhaled insulin to doctors and other medical professionals dealing with diabetes care. As we said to the sales force, we will never get a second chance to introduce the first inhaled insulin. We will do it right, building the educational foundation needed for this great new approach to diabetic care.  

Karen will talk in greater detail about our plans for Exubera, but let me address how this medicine represents more than another Pfizer breakthrough. Exubera demonstrates one of Pfizer's most enduring strengths, our resilience and will to succeed. This will to succeed is also amply evident in China, where I am this week, visiting our customers, colleagues and major policymakers.  

Many of you know at firsthand the amazing development and potential of this nation. China is projected to be the world's fifth-largest pharmaceutical market by 2010. What you may not know is that Pfizer has been investing in China across three decades, and that we are already among the leading pharmaceutical companies in China today, the largest foreign company and number two overall, rapidly closing in on number one. We expect our business here to double and redouble again over the next six to seven years.  

This leadership doesn't happen by accident. It stems from our willingness to set and pursue a long-term vision and the power of our scale of our global reach. Our ability and willingness to prove of new medicines to new markets will be critical in meeting the healthcare challenges of America and the world.  

Next week, we will take a big step toward a healthier world when we launch our smoking cessation medicine, Chantix. This widely anticipated launch will take place in the United States for the first introduction, but the beneficial effects of Chantix may eventually help tens of millions of people around the world. The need is urgent. The newly released cancer atlas says that upwards of 1 billion people will die this century due to smoking-related illnesses.  

Chantix, like Exubera, speaks to our willingness to develop novel medicines that help people prevent crippling illnesses, not just treat their consequences. The US launches of Chantix and Exubera also mean that Pfizer has launched five new medicines in the last ten months, and more are on the way. The next-generation Pfizer is taking shape, and we will use our financial resources to both fuel our growth and to enhance shareholder return.  

I want to illustrate just some of Pfizer's strengths in talking about our activities this week and next. Our most enduring strength, beside our integrity, is our willingness to let go of the old and to to press forward the new. We recognize that in an ideal world, the transition to the next-generation Pfizer would be both seamless and painless. But in the many times that we have remade the Company in our 157-year history, this transition has never been seamless or painless. It always, however, gets accomplished, and Pfizer colleagues always step up to the challenge, just as they are stepping up now. This quarter's strong performance is the best possible testimony to their efforts.  

Thank you. Now, to talk in more detail about our human health business, here is Karen Katen.  

KAREN KATEN, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER INC AND PRESIDENT, PFIZER HUMAN HEALTH, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Hank. Hello, everyone. From the perspective of the human health organization, our second-quarter results are strong, and clearly show we are executing well against our full-year objectives. We achieved growth and performance across the board, from established inline medicines to recent launches, with very wide therapeutic area and geographic reach. Lipitor grew 9% this quarter, keeping it on track toward its stretch sales target for the year.  

Lipitor remains the number-one pharmaceutical product of all time, and with its unmatched clinical profile, we expect it to keep growing. To help accomplish this, we focused on making sure that all the patient who need Lipitor have continued access to it. So far, Lipitor formulary position remains strong, and based on our contracting performance to date, we don't expect the formulary position to erode significantly over the next year.  

I know Lipitor is top of mind for all of you, but it would be a mistake to let it overshadow the rest of our industry-leading portfolio. We have a host of other medicines that are performing quite well. Eight inline medicines had worldwide double-digit growth in the second quarter, including Celebrex, ahead by 17%; Geodon, up by 14%; Vfend, ahead by 30%; DETROL/DETROL LA, ahead by 15%; and, of course, Lyrica, one of this decade's most successful launch products, both in the United States and markets around the world.  

Lyrica has been very well-received by both physicians and patients, because of its ability to relieve debilitating neuropathic pain. We have received countless letters from patients and physicians expressing their appreciation for this great medicine. We believe those patients are also sharing their positive experiences with each other, and their word of mouth is helping to drive Lyrica's success.  

Also, teaching institutions are increasing access to this key medicine, reflecting the high unmet medical need of neuropathic pain and epilepsy. We expect Lyrica to become the first treatment in Europe to be licensed for both peripheral and central neuropathic pain later this year, which will extend its value, obviously, to many more people.  

Over and above our inline products, our portfolio is being renewed and enhanced with new medicines. Sutent marks our expanding presence in oncology. In only five months, it has given more than 6,000 patients new hope in the life-or-death consequences of renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumor cancer.  

There is now breaking news on Sutent. Today, we anticipate that Sutent will be approved in the EU. We are very pleased that this lifesaving medicine will be available to Europeans very shortly.  

In addition, as we speak, there's a steady flow of impressive new treatments being introduced at a record pace, three this summer alone -- Eraxis, an anti-fungal agent for candidemia, which is a potentially fatal fungal infection in the bloodstream, as well as other forms of Candida, including esophageal candidiasis; Chantix, the first new prescription treatment for smoking cessation in nearly a decade, which will be launched in the United States, as Hank said, next week; and Exubera, the first inhalable insulin and one of the most significant innovations in insulin delivery over the past 85 years.  

I would like now to ask Peter Brandt, who is currently in San Francisco at our Exubera launch meeting -- it's a session actually to train and educate our field force on Exubera -- to provide an update on our plans for a phased rollout beginning, which starts at the end of this week. Peter?  

PETER BRANDT, SVP OF PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Karen. Our rollout plan is based on Exubera being both a medical innovation and a manufacturing innovation. Exubera is a profound medical advance, in that it offers patients a novel method of introducing insulin into their systems via the lungs. Long-term efficacy and safety data in both type I and type II diabetes support Exubera as a valuable new option that, used as directed, can lead to a better blood glucose control and potentially reduce the debilitating and costly complications associated with the disease.  

As such an innovation warrants, we will begin a comprehensive educational program for health-care professionals and patients next week. This will include training and demonstration of the proper use of the insulin delivery device and drug, as well as education and information on how to access our comprehensive patient support system. This educational program will be for physicians, diabetes educators, pharmacists as well as other healthcare professionals.  

Now, to get to this point, Pfizer had to create the means to manufacture inhalable insulin, a substance that had never existed before. The manufacturing process begins with large quantities of human recombinant insulin that is processed and spray dried in a unique and proprietary process that creates airborne insulin particles. These insulin particles are just microns small, and are stable at room temperature. Those minute particles are then inserted into foil blister cavities in exact quantities. To give you an idea of the scale we are working on, a 1-mg dose of Exubera contains an amount of insulin microparticles equivalent to six grains of salt, with each grant of salt being 150 times wider then an Exubera insulin particle.  

From the insulin particles to the blister packaging to the inhaler, which in and of itself is a high-tech medical device, Exubera is as much a manufacturing innovation as it is a breakthrough medical advance. So, due to these unique and innovative medical and manufacturing characteristics of Exubera, the first phase of our product rollout will focus on education. We feel it is important for the long-term success of Exubera to appropriately prepare the market for this novel product. The second phase of our rollout will begin in September, when we expect initial supplies of Exubera to be available in pharmacies nationwide.  

KAREN KATEN: Thank you, Peter. Behind our product success in the second quarter has been our process improvements across human health. Organizational transformation has touched every aspect of our business, speeding new medicines from the patent to the patient. Our therapeutic area approach has aligned discovery, development and commercial colleagues to identify and deliver medicines that will be valued by patients, physicians and payers. These teams plan for entire product lifecycles, from discovery to the loss of exclusivity.  

We are also benefiting from increased efficiency across human health. For example, in research, we substantially lowered attrition rates. In manufacturing, we have lowered the number of plants. In 2003, we operated 93 manufacturing sites. Today, we operate 77. We have announced decisions to reduce that number to 63 by the end of 2008.  

On the commercial side, our initiative entitled Aligning Around Customers in Europe and Canada has been implemented across those markets, to help us focus more on brands as well as on customers. This initiative will ultimately yield hundreds of millions of dollars in savings. In the United States, our reorganized field force is also reenergized, as evidenced through improved productivity and performance. For example, the percentage of high-prescribing primary care details has increased in the range of 9% to 24% across all our therapeutic areas.  

Finally, we have intensely concentrated on licensing and partnering. We have completed an average of one deal per month in the last six months. We believe that rate is unprecedented in our industry.  

With our continued attention to operational excellence and with our strong portfolio of inline and pipeline medicines, we're positioned to deliver important new medicines to patients faster than ever, to promote health and models of care better than ever and to ensure access to our medicines for patients as never before. Our transformation is well on its way, allowing us to sustain this performance and create the next-generation Pfizer. Thank you very much.  

Now, Vice Chairman David Shedlarz will provide additional details on second-quarter performance. David?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER INC., PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Karen. We exceeded our expectations in the second quarter on many fronts. Our adjusted diluted earnings per share increased 11% to $0.50, and our full-year outlook for adjusted diluted earnings per share has improved by $0.07. Our prior guidance for 2006 was about $2 in adjusted diluted earnings per share, which with the the reclassification of the results of our consumer health business as discontinued operations would be equivalent to about $1.93. However, even without the contribution of the consumer health business, we now expect to report, at current exchange rates, adjusted diluted earnings per share of about $2 for the full year.  

We continue to improve profitability, through expense control as well as our broad-based productivity initiative. I would like to highlight two fundamental factors implicit in our results. One is the underlying strength of the Company, as reflected by our strong second-quarter performance, continuing the trend from the first quarter. And I would urge you to look beyond the latest numbers to understand what they say about the potential of our exceptional product portfolio and, equally important, our strategies and our drive to deliver results.  

The other factors are enormous financial strength and operating flexibility. Our cash flow from ongoing operations this year will exceed $16 billion. This already substantial financial flexibility has been further enhanced by the recent agreement to sell our consumer health business for $16.6 billion. The proceeds from the sale of our consumer health business, combined with the cash flow from ongoing operations, will generate approximately $34 billion after capital expenditures and dividends over the next 30 months.  

We are allocating these significant resources judiciously on two fronts, aggressively investing in business development activities, primarily to increase our new product opportunities, and continually enhancing shareholder value through stock buybacks and growth in dividends. That ability of our organization is another important underlying element in our performance.  

We are successfully transforming our organization in the face of a changing product portfolio and market dynamics. Our financial strength and operating flexibility are enabling us to successfully take on these challenges, as well as pursue a number of high-reward business opportunities.  

And finally, I need to remind you that this morning's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2005 annual report on Form 10-K and our reports on Form 10-Q and 8-K.  

Also, in this call we've been discussing financial and other information, as well as some non-GAAP financial measures, in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K dated July 20, 2006. This report is available on our website at  www.pfizer.com  in the For Investors/SEC Filings by Pfizer section.  

Thank you, and now let me turn things back to Hank.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, David. Thank you, Karen. Before we get to your questions, knowing of your interest in Lipitor, I would like Peter Brandt to reconcile second-quarter Lipitor revenues to underlying script numbers. Peter?  

PETER BRANDT: Sure, Hank. You recall, when we talked at the end of the first quarter, one of the things we said at that point -- when you look at total Rx's and you try to reconcile that to our revenue performance, there are a number of factors involved. Looking over a relatively short period of time -- at that point, only three months -- some of the factors get a little bit skewed or a little bit out of whack. But as you go further into the year, things become much clearer. I think we're at that point through six months.  

So if we look at the first half of 2006, TRx growth, when you look at the monthly data out of IMS for Lipitor, is basically flat in the US. It's up a little bit, but it is basically flat.  

So how do we go from that number to a 7% revenue growth through the first six months in the US? Well, the first part of it would be when you look at the number of units per prescription as well as our mix. By that, I'm referring, obviously, to how much of our business is coming from the 10-mg, the 20, the 40 and 80. We have had a strategy for quite a bit of time that is backed up by our data that it is highly efficacious for physicians to move their patients up the dosing scale.  

So if you look at the two combined factors, units per Rx and mix -- and actually units per Rx is down slightly -- the two combined add 2% to our growth. Then if you add on top of that the list price increase that we have had, that adds about another 5% to our performance. Then you take into account another pricing impact, which is what is happening on the rebate front.  

As Karen mentioned before, the access for Lipitor is quite strong and in fact has never been stronger. But when you look at the interplay of some of the accounts going in an out, and some of the movement from Medicaid into Medicare, the amount of rebates that we are now offering, in terms of this first six months versus the previous six months or the six months of 2005, we get a favorable impact of 3% in that calculation as well.  

Now, the other factor that we look at, too, is what is going on with the inventory levels. Actually, at the wholesale level, in terms of weeks on hand at wholesalers for Lipitor, we are actually down slightly at the end of the second quarter in 2006, relative to that same point in time in 2005. So that takes away about 2 percentage points of our growth.  

So, when you add all this up, you're taking flat TRx growth, unit per Rx and mix factors adding 2%, price increase having a 5% impact, rebate changes having a 3% positive impact and then the slight downward revision at the wholesale level, in terms of inventory having a negative 2% impact. So that adds up to what you would expect to be about an 8% growth at the revenue line, which compares nicely to the 7% that we have booked.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Now, we will turn to your questions. I will direct traffic from Beijing, but ask Karen or David to jump in if anyone in New York can add anything. Operator, first question, please.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Roopesh Patel, UBS.  

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST, UBS: I had a couple of questions on earnings guidance. Since Pfizer will have the benefit of the cash proceeds from the sale of the consumer health business, I just wanted to clarify if the 2007 and 2008 earnings growth guidance of high single digits is off of the $2 base or the $2.07 base.  

Then, just separately, the press release acknowledges that the Lipitor target of $13 billion is a stretch goal. I just wanted to request if you could comment on how much lower do these sales need to be to impact your upwardly revised 2006 EPS guidance?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: In terms of the earnings guidance for 2007 and 2008, it is off of adjusted diluted earnings per share of about two dollars in 2006.  

HANK MCKINNELL: On the Lipitor goal, we do call it a stretch goal. We're still confident we will achieve it this year. But a good way to think about our P&L is $100 million in either revenue or expense on high-margin products accounts for about $0.01 per share.  

OPERATOR: John Boris, Bear Stearns.  

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Just back onto Lipitor, if you look at prescription trends for each dosage form of Lipitor, so just going into a little detail, 80-mg is growing, 40 is growing, 20 is kind of flattish to maybe just slightly down. But it looks like all of the bleeding is coming from 10. Can you help us understand what is going on there with the 10-mg? Because it does account for about 41% of your total scripts, probably about 30% of your revenue. So it seems like a lot of the bleeding is just coming from the lower value strength. But what you plan on doing going forward that gives you optimism that you can turn that around?  

KAREN KATEN: Peter, do you want to respond to that?  

PETER BRANDT: Sure. I think there are two factors to it. I don't think there's any doubt that when you look at what a number of the payers are trying to do as it relates to generic simvastatin versus Lipitor, the only place that they are trying to focus their efforts is at the 10-mg level. So I think some of the erosion you are seeing, we would argue, is the expected amount if not a little bit less than we had thought it might have been, due to their efforts at this point in time.  

But the more important factor is one that we alluded to before. It has been part of our strategy -- based, again, on the clinical data that supports it -- that we ought to be encouraging physicians to move their patients to the higher dosages. So I think it has been very much a conscious effort on our part as well.  

HANK MCKINNELL: We also need to be careful about static analysis in a very dynamic marketplace here. While it is true that some payers are trying to switch patients from 10-mg Lipitor to simvastatin, we know that the majority of those patients do not get to goal, and in fact none of them get to the new goals we expect to be announced towards the end of this year.  

So I think there's a round one, which is the switch from 10-mg to simvastatin. But round two is when those patients don't get to goal, then there is further benefits, in terms of cardiovascular risk reduction, by going to the higher doses of Lipitor. That is our strategy.  

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Prudential.  

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: If I understand your guidance correctly for 2006, it's that SG&A and R&D will collectively grow. I'm wondering if your guidance for 2007 and 2008 factors in continued positive year-over-year growth in SG&A and R&D.  

Second question, on gross margins -- are gross margins of 85% sustainable over the next year, as big, highly profitable drugs go off patent and as the global pricing environment continues to deteriorate?  

On acquisitions, in the past, you've said maybe doing a few acquisitions of a few billion dollars or so in value. Is that guidance still current, or should we expect that bigger targets could be part of the mix?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, let me start and then I will ask David and maybe Karen to add in here. We have not provided guidance for SG&A and R&D in 2007 and 2008. We will do that closer to 2007. The sustainability of the margins is partly an issue related to price, but most importantly to mix. I do think the products we're introducing -- with the exception of Exubera, which is low margin because of the high product cost -- they are equally profitable as the products they are replacing.  

The acquisition strategy is to target acquisition of new intellectual property and new product opportunities, particularly earlier stage. It is very difficult to predict what those might be over the next two years, but we're looking in a universe that tends to be in the $1 billion to $4 billion acquisition cost range.  

We don't see much benefit to us at this stage, given our global reach and presence in every leading market in the world, of a large acquisition. But we do see benefit in more targeted acquisitions that will deliver either intellectual property or new product opportunities.  

David, any more on the margin issue?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes. Again, we don't have numbers out there for the 2007/2008 timeframe. But I would ask you to understand some of the fundamental factors that are going to influence that. Obviously, investments, the support for new product potential we will continue to do. But also, what has to be taken into consideration is the very robust program to enhance the productivity of Pfizer, of which you'll see a little over $2 billion in 2006.  

But that's not the end of the game. We're looking for that to peak at about $4 billion by 2008. So you have some forces here, while positive, to support the new product potential and enhance productivity of the Company at the same time.  

As relates to share repurchase, what we have said is we will spend up to $17 billion in terms of accommodating that opportunity on behalf of the Company, up to $7 billion this year and up to $10 billion in 2007. As Hank has outlined, we will temper that on the basis of the number of new product opportunities that we have as a Company. I think John would like to add a little bit to that.  

JOHN LAMATTINA, SVP, PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER INC.: I think that people are surprised when we talk about how active we have been in this area for the last period of time. In the last 22 months, we have done 15 deals of various sizes. They have been across 10 of our 11 different therapeutic areas. As Hank said, they fall into three broad categories -- late-staged opportunities like fesoterodine, which we recently brought in from Schwarz, the Vicuron acquisition, which brought in Eraxis and Dalbavancin; earlier-stage deals bringing in compounds that are in preclinical Phase I or so, as we did with Coley and Insight; and then technology platform deals to increase our capabilities in delivering compounds in key therapeutic areas and particularly in increasing our presence in biologicals.  

I think our deal with Rinat, which were antibodies in the neuroscience area; Bioren, which increases our platform in antibodies; and Angiosyn, which helps us in large molecules and ophthalmology -- all are designed to help us improve our productivity.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I think, also, the recent acquisition of the metabolic program from Bayer signals a strategic change in the marketplace. As numerous companies, Bayer and others, focus more narrowly on the marketplace, it's a real opportunity for Pfizer and others like Pfizer to pick up very good programs in broader therapeutic areas that require promotion more broadly to primary-care physicians. I think you are going to see more of that as the year unfolds here.  

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, Lehman Brothers.  

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: My question revolves around Chantix. While it will be launched next week, can you comment as to the discussions that you had with respect to reimbursement to date?  

Second, David, with respect to R&D expense guidance for the current year, while you all have been extremely aggressive in the deal calendar, as Dr. LaMattina explained, does that number includes your anticipation of deals for the remainder of this year?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Peter, on Chantix discussions?  

PETER BRANDT: Sure. The history of a marketplace like this is that it has primarily always been a cash market. It's predominantly a cash market. There has not been much reimbursement for smoking cessation products or programs in the past. One of the advantages that we have is that society is putting a huge amount of pressure on the payers, and payers themselves -- led by their customers, the employers -- are changing even without any introduction of a novel, innovative product such as Chantix.  

So our timing is wonderful, in terms of going into some of these conversations with the payers and those that represent them, in terms of why it is important to begin to reimburse at higher levels than they have previously for smoking cessation products. We still don't expect that this is going to come anywhere near the type of reimbursement or formulary levels that you see with a product such as Lipitor. On the other hand, it's going to be, we think, higher than we have seen previously with smoking cessation products.  

Now, in terms of the timing of these, most of the formulary decisions or the discussions really happen anywhere from 6 to 12 months post-introduction or in, at least, that timeframe. So, while we have had a number of preliminary discussions that go through the benefits of this product and the long-term implications of smoking cessation, which have all been very positive conversations, there really have not been much because it is not at that point in the cycle, by way of very specifically, are we on formulary? What kind of tier and what kind of contracting are we talking about?  

KAREN KATEN: I would just like to add that, as you know, Tony, this is not a very well-defined market. So, like many of our markets in the past, we will drive to create this market for prescription smoking cessation. We have a very interesting confluence of circumstances around the world, where governments are recommending smoking cessation, and increasingly we're seeing a willingness to treat this as an addiction, which of course it is. Already, in places like Norway and Japan and Taiwan, they have already agreed to reimburse for Chantix, which is a breakthrough for us.  

Many employers in the US are now covering smoking cessation in their health employee programs. So all of these, I think, create a trend. We will be there with that trend, knowing that Chantix will benefit from it.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Just as confirmation of that, here in China there's 350 million smokers. Our discussions this week with government has been very positive on the importance of Chantix and the behavioral modification programs that go along with it.  

David, on the R&D guidance?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes, two parts to the answer to your question. There is a small provision in there, in terms of potential license or alliance arrangements in the second half of the year, including the approximately $7.6 billion we're talking for R&D. But in terms of anything beyond that, the answer would be no. It's really hard to put that forecast in there, because you don't know what it is, what will be expensed, what will be written off, what will go to the balance sheet, what will go to the P&L. So in terms of ongoing alliance activity, yes. In terms of acquisitions, no, until we better understand exactly what those are.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I would be very happy to exceed that guidance.  

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Merrill Lynch.  

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: First of all, the more complicated question, and that relates to rebate accounting. Pfizer has discussed bundling its products, in negotiations with managed care. So when Pfizer bundles, how do you then allocate specific rebates to individual product lines that you report in the US revenue line? That's the first question.  

Second, Pfizer has discussed contracting more aggressively on Lipitor. Can you walk us through when you expect the greater rebates will start to impact the reported Lipitor US sales?  

Then, third, if you could just separately comment on Zoloft's ex-US sales performance?  

HANK MCKINNELL: On rebates, we don't bundle; we do sell the whole portfolio, however. David, on the accounting for rebates?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Since we don't bundle, we have very specific rebates that go against each and every one of the products. We don't have the issue, I think, that David is describing.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Peter, on the Lipitor contracting?  

PETER BRANDT: Some of the things that we have gotten more aggressive on, in terms of Lipitor, are not going to have that profound an impact in terms of the rebate percentage, if you will. A number of things I am referring to -- when you get into what is the -- is it Tier 2 unrestricted? Is it a Tier 2 where you are the unique or the single branded agent, or are there two agents or are there three agents? So a lot of the flexibility can come into how many other agents are on a given tier? Are there any type of soft step-edits or hard step-edits in something like this?  

In terms of the actual rebate percentage, you're going to have probably an increase, we would estimate, of a minor amount as we go out into the next couple of years in terms of our commercial book of business. How that plays against the trends in Medicare, we're just forecasting at this point in time. So I am not sure you're going to see, anytime soon, kind of a major turnaround in that rebate number that we keep citing at the quarterly meetings.  

KAREN KATEN: George Henninger is here to discuss the Zoloft non-US performance. But I should mention that, ironically, just about the same week as the patent expired in the US, we launched Zoloft in Japan. So quite a gap in time.  

GEORGE HENNINGER, VP, PFIZER INC.: Exactly, and as you can see by the addendum to our financials, we are reporting a 53% decline in the quarter. It's primarily driven by the performance in Europe, which is down about the same amount, about 56%. That's largely due to the patent expiration that occurred at the tail end of the first quarter. As Karen pointed out, ironically, Japan is launching the product later this year as a new product.  

OPERATOR: David Moskowitz, Friedman, Billings, Ramsey.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: The first question is on a generic for Mobic, was I believe just launched yesterday. I think that makes Celebrex the only promoted NSAID out there. So could you talk about how that can help the franchise get to your goal of $2 billion? Specifically, can you talk about what that means in the managed care environment?  

My second question is, can you give us some clarity on when you expect to present data for the Phase III program on torcetrapib? That would be the IVUS data. I think we need some clarity out there as to almost precisely when you do expect to come out with that data.  

Then, three, I just wanted to ask about to share repurchase program. From my standpoint, it looks like you can get all you can or all you want in the low 20's. So specifically for this quarter and perhaps the fourth quarter, how much do you have earmarked for buying back shares? If you can't answer that question, what is the trigger point for you guys stepping up and buying more?  

HANK MCKINNELL: On Mobic, before Peter or Marie-Caroline address the impact of Mobic generics, I find it really interesting that another company in the device businesses actually referenced the decline in COX-2 usage as the reason for a significant increase last year in knee and hip replacement. That kind of underscores our basic message in this marketplace. But Karen, who would you like to enter the Mobic generic question?  

KAREN KATEN: I think Pat Kelly is here, and he can talk about the future of Celebrex. We are very optimistic about it, despite the generic availability of a product like Mobic.  

PAT KELLY, VP OF PFIZER INC. AND PRESIDENT OF PFIZER U.S. PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER INC.: So, the arthritis market has been for quite a while, as you noted, primarily generic, anyway. Ibuprofen and naproxin are much more significant players than Mobic will ever be. So we don't think the specific expiration of Mobic will have much impact on Celebrex. Our future story is all about beginning to rebuild physician and patient confidence in what is the most efficacious agent, regardless of whether it is branded or generic. It is the strongest and most effective pain relief going for patients with pain and arthritis, and we are continuing to rebuild those expectations.  

At the same time, we are continuing to find ways to expand the Celebrex franchise, with a filing just last month of the juvenile rheumatoid arthritis claim for Celebrex, which will add, again, another new use to this already widely utilized but hopefully headed towards even greater utilization agent.  

KAREN KATEN: In addition, in the second quarter, we filed in Europe for ankylosing spondylitis for Celebrex, so another new indication there. So there is an opportunity for increased use of this important medicine.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And, John LaMattina, could you repeat our guidance on TA data disclosure?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: So the data that everybody is waiting for is the imaging data, which we plan to present -- not just IVUS, but also the carotid artery work -- at the March American College of Cardiology meeting. I don't know the exact date in March, but it's sometime there. We will have some presentations at the Heart Association meeting in November, which hopefully will be impressive with people, on some of the other studies we're doing outside of imaging. But the ones that everybody is waiting for will be March 2007.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And David, on share repurchase?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: We totally agree with you that an investment in Pfizer stock is a compelling one. So we have increased now, twice, the target from for this year, going from 1 to 4, up to 7. We bought $2 billion in the first half of the year, and we're looking to turn that up quite dramatically by buying up to $5 billion in the second half of the year. So we agree with you in terms of this compelling investment opportunity.  

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Morgan Stanley.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: First, a question for you, Hank. We're hearing that HMOs are in the process now of negotiating much more significant price concessions with manufacturers related to Medicare Part D. So I'm wondering if you can shed some light on how those discussions are going, and rebates to Medicare Part D -- what sort of change we can anticipate for 2007.  

My second question relates to Exubera. Peter, I am wondering if you can shed more light on a couple of questions. One, wondering what the sampling program will look like for Exubera, how that might differ from a typical new product launch that doesn't require quite as much education. Secondly, what sort of physician groups you are targeting? Lastly, since the launch is being described as a staged launch, when will prescription trends start to matter?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Maybe Pat Kelly is best able to answer the Medicare Part D question.  

PAT KELLY: To begin with, again, as we have stated before, we very aggressively went to insure presence of Pfizer's great medicines in all managed Medicare formularies in the Part D program, and in fact successfully concluded negotiations with 82 of the almost 100 plans that are out there on a national or regional basis. Those were successful, in terms of providing us with formulary access at a Tier 2 level for our medicines at a level is greater than any of our competitors' in various therapeutic categories.  

We secured that position, again, by very effectively and aggressively contracting, and that has continued to this date. As we continue in discussions with each one of those plans, they have been uniformly pretty pleased with the progress they have seen with Pfizer medicines in their formulary, and pleased with the negotiations that we had and that we continue to have. So we don't foresee, really, anything but continued strong performance in the Medicare world for Pfizer medicines.  

KAREN KATEN: Even more importantly, I think, is the overwhelming strength of the Medicare Part D program, where almost 23 million people are now enrolled and the research that's been done show that they are very satisfied with the benefit and it is a real benefit. So that's a source of future volume.  

JAMI RUBIN: Pat, just if I can follow up, though, what about pricing concessions for 2007 versus 2006? Have you entered into those discussions yet?  

PAT KELLY: Those are really just beginning. Again, as you are aware, this is going to be an annual event. We were so focused, as were the plans themselves, on getting this program up and running to the success that Karen just alluded to, that those discussions really are just beginning.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Peter, on Exubera sampling and targeting?  

PETER BRANDT: Sure. The sampling -- to begin with, you're absolutely right. It's not a typical sampling program, by any stretch of the imagination. We have put together what we call early experience kits or starter kits that go to our targeted physician population, that will be to get them even further trained on the use of the device and the product with a select number of their patients. That is something that will be going out within the next week or two through our representatives to those divisions.  

The targeting that we are going after -- we're starting with the targeting of physicians who are basically large users of insulin now, and therefore have a wealth of experience with not just the use of insulin but the oral agents as well and, most importantly, with this patient population. That, therefore, by definition means you are going to have an awful lot of the endocrinologists in that group. That is, if you will, our first wave of the rollout, which is to target those highly experienced, primarily endocrinologists with things like those early experience or starter kits that I referred to before.  

Your last part of the question, on Exubera, looking at when we think you can look at some of the prescription data -- I think that's a very good question. I would be hard-pressed to say it's going to be meaningful anytime in the next couple of months, probably toward the end of this year if not early next year.  

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, Banc of America.  

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Two questions on Lipitor. First, with regards to the reacceleration in the international Lipitor business this quarter, is that a factor of easier German comparisons, easier currency comparisons or just an acceleration of underlying growth?  

The second question, in terms of the US Lipitor, can you just update us on what percent of commercial plans or patients you have under a formulary contract through 2007 that you gave last quarter?  

KAREN KATEN: We have George Henninger here, who can talk about the European experience with Lipitor, [if you want].  

GEORGE HENNINGER: I think you've hit on one anomaly that we highlighted in the first-quarter earnings release with Lipitor internationally. The first quarter was kind of skewed negatively, because of the timing of the German fixed reference price sales impact, as well as an anomaly related to Japan price [decrease] timing. At that time, we had said that our underlying business, excluding those two markets, internationally was operational growth in the first quarter of about 8%. If you adjust the second quarter for those two countries as well, the second quarter of growth is 9% on a comparable basis. So it really was the German and the Japan timing, quarter to quarter, that negatively impacted the numbers.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Pat or Peter, on US formulary status?  

PETER BRANDT: I have got those numbers here, Pat. If you take a look at where we are in 2006, if you're looking at commercial lines including the PBNs that represent them, in 2006 we have greater than 70% of those lines for Lipitor on Tier 2 unrestricted or better. Where we are right now through the end of -- for 2007, we are very close, because we've got a couple of big ones that we are in the final stages of negotiating on. But assuming those go well -- and we have every reason to believe they will -- we will be, again, over 70% for 2007. We do indeed think that we're going to have the majority of those as well carry through not just 2007 but 2008.  

The other thing that -- obviously, contracting has been a key part of our strategy to maintain a very high level of access for Lipitor. But to give you just a flavor for it, even since about four or five weeks ago, since early in June, we've signed an additional eight contracts on the commercial side and three on the Medicaid side, and in some cases, in states where we had not had Lipitor on for close to two years.  

KAREN KATEN: I would like to ask Michael Berelowitz to talk about the SPARCL data, which is another source of new business for us that happened in the second quarter.  

MICHAEL BERELOWITZ, VP, WORLDWIDE MEDICAL AND OUTCOMES RESEARCH, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Karen. I think that SPARCL is a study with an acronym that stands for stroke prevention by aggressive reduction in cholesterol levels. I think that highlights at least three of the unique characteristics of the clinical program around Lipitor. I think the first is that this program has been developed around patient populations with a huge unmet medical need. There's a large number of patients who suffer a stroke, estimated at about 15 million people worldwide, and 10 million of those remain disabled thereafter. Stroke patients are an area of huge medical necessity.  

Of the people who get a stroke, many of them, up to 40% of them, will have another. SPARCL was a study using Lipitor 80-mg in people who'd had a previous stroke or an ischemic event, to demonstrate in nearly 5,000 patients the ability of Lipitor to reduce by 16% the occurrence of a subsequent stroke, and also the reduction in cardiovascular events that you would have expected from 80-mg of Lipitor.  

The other highlight, and it does highlight the need to move to higher doses of Lipitor, was the tolerability of 80-mg in this patient population.  

Then, I think that the third element is that it really puts into perspective the remarkable data that Lipitor has shown in stroke. Stroke happens in people with high blood pressure. We studied that in the study called ASCOT, and demonstrated in ASCOT that 10-mg of Lipitor decreased stroke. It happens in people with diabetes, and we studied in CARDS the effect of 10-mg of Lipitor demonstrating a 50% reduction in stroke. It happens in people with atherosclerosis, and we studied 80-mg of Lipitor in TNT, Treating to New Targets, and demonstrated that 80-mg of Lipitor is more capable of reducing stroke than 10-mg of Lipitor in that patient population.  

So I thing that highlights a number of issues around safety of 80-mg of Lipitor, the uniqueness of the study programs we prepared to innovate and invest in, and the unmet medical means that we're addressing with Lipitor to highlight the need for this medication.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I think you should conclude from this that those physicians and patients who know the data will use Lipitor. I think we're also going to see quite a profound change of thinking later this year or early next, as the guidelines officially come from 100-mg LDL to 70, because you just can't get there with simvastatin. That is going to change this market in quite a profound way in our direction.  

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen & Co.  

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: Two topics,please. First, regarding torcetrapib, the release states, "assuming that we see expected improvements over the comparative agent." I'm not sure that Pfizer has said what is the expected improvement on both IVUS and IMT and, relatedly, what the FDA hurdle is for both of those. So I'm wondering if you could enlighten us on that.  

Secondly, on Exubera, how many Pfizer sales reps will have Exubera as their primary detail? How do you expect Exubera to be reimbursed by managed care?  

HANK MCKINNELL: I will save John LaMattina his standard speech here. On torcetrapib/atorvastatin, we have not said -- in fact, we do not have expectations. We think it's going to be important. We have not said exactly what the number is, nor does the FDA know that that number would be to justify approval. It's a more complicated world than that. So our guidance on torcetrapib/atorvastatin is that we expect improvement. We have not quantified that, nor has the FDA quantified that.  

Peter, on Exubera sales reps?  

PETER BRANDT: We have approximately 2,300 reps here in San Francisco that are excited to begin their educational programs beginning Monday, and it's a very high priority for them.  

Your second part of the question, on Exubera, was as it relates to reimbursement. We expect very good levels of reimbursement on Exubera. One benchmark -- when you look at the [TZBs] out there, they have very high formulary acceptance, and the benefits of Exubera relative to that class of products, we think, is quite profound.  

KAREN KATEN: The reps who are selling Exubera are also educating on Lyrica and Celebrex, so it is in that sales force cluster.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I do think the relationships that are built through this extensive training period will serve us well for many years.  

OPERATOR: Norman Fidel, Alliance.  

NORMAN FIDEL, ANALYST, ALLIANCE: Thank you, my question was already asked.  

OPERATOR: James Kelly, Goldman Sachs.  

JAMES KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: My question has to do with Chantix, and how we should be evaluating the success of Chantix when it is launched on the market and we start looking at the prescriptions, given the targeted sense of the rollout there.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Peter, on script trends expected?  

PETER BRANDT: I'm going to ask Marie-Caroline to handle this.  

MARIE-CAROLINE SAINPY, SVP, PFIZER INC.: As you probably know, it's a market which has a history, for the few drugs which have been launched, of very rapid acceptance and very strong disappointment, and the scripts go down very rapidly. So we are very cognizant of that. We realize that those failures are due to two things -- well, maybe three -- drugs which don't work really well; not focusing early on on the really committed patients who want to stop smoking, they know they should, they need help in smoking; and physicians who are willing to support them in what is an extremely difficult journey towards quitting, because it is a [chronic or lasting] condition. It's an addiction, and it is something which has not been really well-understood in the past.  

So the way we are planning to launch this product is really in trying to reverse what is a history of failure for the doctor, for the patient, for the market, into a successful experience for all concerned. So it's very [similar] (indiscernible) Exubera; we're going to spend a lot of time focusing on the right patient/doctor combination, providing them a lot of support. There is a whole behavioral program to actually support the patients wanting to quit. There is an 800 number that is available to them at any time to talk them through temptation, relapse, et cetera.  

So it is, again, a process designed to reverse what is a history of failure for everybody, by making sure that there is the right education and support, and therefore a gradual focus launched as is appropriate, given the amount of education which is needed.  

JAMES KELLY: If I can briefly follow up there, I believe there's a COPD trial that is also ongoing, and I'm interested if this is something that could eventually become an indication, or just something that will be put out into the scientific literature.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Joe Feczko, could you comment on that?  

JOE FECZKO, VICE PRESIDENT OF PFIZER INC., EVP OF PFIZER GLOBAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: It's not clear that it would really be an indication. It would be more for these people, if they need to, to stop smoking, to improve their lung function. It's really to document the improvement that occurs there in, again, a difficult-to-treat patient population who have obviously been smoking for quite a long time. So it's really just focusing in on that population.  

KAREN KATEN: One more addition that Michael's going to give on that.  

MICHAEL BERELOWITZ: I think that when it comes to Chantix, we're going to be looking at a number of elements of the global program that can enhance the capabilities of this, and enhance our understanding of how to use smoking cessation. We have got a very complete lifecycle plan for this product, and that is one element thereof.  

OPERATOR: Prem Lachman, Maximus Capital.  

PREM LACHMAN, ANALYST, MAXIMUS CAPITAL: Just to follow on Exubera again. I heard that this very good reimbursement is the outlook for this drug. There seems to be a lot of skepticism that the analysts have written about at the managed care level on reimbursing this (indiscernible) to a Tier 2 or Tier 3 or prior authorization. So can you just define very good reimbursement? Is it Tier 2? Will there be no prior authorization?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Peter?  

PETER BRANDT: Those are the discussions that are just beginning of this point. Most of the managed care organizations put a product that is new on their formulary for a period of 6 months or 9 or 12 months, until they have their PNT committees that are normally scheduled. We are seeing some that have already been -- a handful -- that have been scheduled almost on an emergency basis, because they really do see two things -- one, the total cost of diabetes, which is not only growing astronomically but is, in and of itself, an extremely large number. And therefore, second, married to that thought, they see the benefits of Exubera.  

So there are a number of formularies that have already gone favorably toward Exubera, meaning Tier 2. But again, most of the discussions are going to play out over the next six months on this product.  

KAREN KATEN: As we mentioned earlier, you recall the targets for Exubera are patients who are on two oral therapies. So this is not a comparison against injectable insulin, per se. These are people who have refused or tried to negotiate their way out of moving to insulin, even though they would be better treated because, as you know, insulin is the gold standard. So we are trying to go after patients who need to be on insulin who have been reluctant to try insulin, but who are good candidates and who could have clinical improvements associated --  

PREM LACHMAN: Can I just have a follow-on to that? You only get one chance to make a first impression with this, and you are paving the road on this therapy. The use of the device as far as patient convenience, et cetera, is going to be a very important aspect of the drug's success or patient acceptance. What are some of the strategies to make sure very convenient for patients, if there is any issue with the device or if they have any -- other than just a phone calling into the toll-free number or whatever? How are you going to make this device successful at the patient level vis-a-vis their acceptance of it?  

KAREN KATEN: Yes, that's the basis of the education program.  

HANK MCKINNELL: That is the key to our introduction. Peter, could you talk a little bit about both education and the service centers?  

MARIE-CAROLINE SAINPY: There is a whole education program for the patient. They will have DVD, brochures, a whole system to train the whole -- doctors, office staff, anybody who is going to treat those patients. So there's an extremely comprehensive training program for those patients, very much building on the experience we have had training those patients during the clinical trials. In addition, there is a call center, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, staffed by nurses to deal with any question, any issues the patients may have.  

PETER BRANDT: The point of our first phase here, the next six weeks, before we began to ship the products nationwide into the pharmacies, is to make sure that the health-care community is appropriately ready to handle all the questions that would come from the patients. So you're hitting on exactly why we think it is important to have a studied, measured, phased rollout here to make sure that we lay the groundwork for the future success of this product.  

PREM LACHMAN: Say you guys are still maintaining your revenue outlook versus Wall Street's on this product?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Absolutely.  

OPERATOR: Mario Corso, Summer Street Research. Mario Corso, your line is open.  

Al Rauch, A.G. Edwards.  

AL RAUCH, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: I was wondering if you could give us any guidance on any possible supply constraints of supplying Exubera to the market, and if you could give us any initial color on pricing strategies for inhaled insulin and the device.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Peter, over to you.  

PETER BRANDT: What we're doing with our phased rollout is obviously, as we have stressed a few times today, trying to make sure that the educational process is as successful as we hope it can be and we think it needs to be. So, as we said a moment ago, the first phase is a very concentrated educational program of the healthcare community, to be followed, we anticipate, by the phase of education of the patient community.  

Our supply is matched to that plan. So, again, the thought that we would have commercial availability or in pharmacies in September fits with that educational platform. We are daily increasing our capacity, in terms of our manufacturing capabilities on this product. We anticipate that we will have the ability to supply the demands of our target audience when we offer the product initially.  

MARIO CORSO, ANALYST, SUMMER STREET RESEARCH: For 2007, what kind of supply constraints might you have?  

PETER BRANDT: We, at this point in time, don't anticipate issues meeting the demands of our target audience.  

OPERATOR: Chris Shibutani, JPMorgan.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Karen, you quoted something in terms of the detailing efforts, the percentage of impact that you're having on high prescribing physicians. I don't recall the numbers exactly. It went from 9% to 41%.  

KAREN KATEN: 9% to 24%.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: 9% to 24%. Sorry. I'm not sure we have heard this metric before, and I just wanted to clarify. What is the denominator on that? Because you have made some changes in terms of the number of reps per physician. How should we interpret that information?  

Then, I did have a couple of quick follow-ups detailing on the Exubera, but first on the --  

KAREN KATEN: I will ask Peter to answer the specific question on the 9% to 24% range.  

PETER BRANDT: That is taking a look at where we were at some point last year, and looking at the effort that we put behind the top tier, top decile physicians throughout a lot of our therapeutic areas that we addressed in the US, and seeing to what extent we were able to [increase] our focus on exactly those. So the denominator, if you will, is looking at the top few deciles of prescribers in the US.  

KAREN KATEN: As you recall, we reorganized the US field force in October of 2005, with the objective of reducing the number of reps calling on any one doctor, improving the targeting and improving the productivity. I think we're seeing good results from that, and that organization is aligned around the Medicare region.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: And the quick follow-up questions for Exubera -- specifically, number one, I believe the recommendations are on the label are for the patients to have pulmonary function tests afterwards. Can you talk about, concretely, what role Pfizer is looking to play, particularly as the product is launched?  

Number two, you seem to emphasize a lot in terms of the complexities of manufacturing insulin. As far as you know, the next generation of the device -- will the same formulation of insulin be used for that, or will it require or involve any change in the manufacturing or formulation of the insulin?  

Then, finally, you did describe in the release that you have launched in Germany and Mexico. Can you comment about how that process is going, what is being learned from that early stage of the launch outside the US?  

KAREN KATEN: Michael?  

MICHAEL BERELOWITZ: As far as the pulmonary function testing required for Exubera is concerned, there's a couple of things. The first is that this is a test that is a requirement like people take blood tests for Lipitor and so on. In that particular regard, I think physicians seem to understand it quite well.  

The second issue is that in primary-care practice, there is a requirement that physicians be able to do pulmonary function in their patients with asthma and so on. So they have availability of this kind of equipment, and they have comfort with this kind of equipment. That is what we have heard from physicians as we have spoken to them and they become used to the idea. So we don't see that as an issue.  

PETER BRANDT: In terms of formulations and second-generation devices, for the all the obvious reasons, we would seek to use the same formulation we now have. But we will roll with the science and where it takes us in terms of the next generation.  

KAREN KATEN: You asked about launch in Germany and Ireland, which happened in May of this year. It's a little too early to tell what the impact is, but the qualitative feedback is very positive. The issues raised there have been -- the education program there has been the same as is being delivered here in the United States.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: Anything happening that is not expected, relative to the fact that this is such a new, novel introduction? Anything you have learned modifying your subsequent launch after the first months or so?  

KAREN KATEN: No. Actually, that is the basis for this kind of dedicated, deliberate education program, so that we make sure that we don't have any mistakes or make any mistakes or slippage on the way. It seems to be working quite well, thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: That concludes today's conference call. Thank you all for being with us.  

KAREN KATEN: Thank you.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
jonjon : Johnson & Johnson | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances | iprscp : Personal Care Accessories
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060803e27k0015u
  


 HD
 Q1  2006  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,589 words
   PD
19 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Dr. McKinnell, you may begin.  

HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER INC.: Hello, everyone. I am Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO of Pfizer. And welcome to Pfizer's first-quarter 2006 conference call and webcast. With me today here in New York are several of my senior colleagues, who I will introduce when they reply to your questions. Today, I'm going to make a few brief opening remarks, and then we will get right to your questions.  

   TD
During the first quarter, we saw good results from our in-line medicines and increasing contributions from new products. Among our key in-lines, our worldwide revenue for Celebrex grew 19%, and Geodon 32%. Lyrica continued to deliver exceptional results, and we now expect Lyrica to achieve $900 million or more in sales this year. We are committed in our efforts to reach full-year revenue goals for Lipitor in the face of a challenging environment and, admittedly, a slower-than-hoped-for start to the year. The same commitment is true for Celebrex.  

We realized significant cost savings from our restructuring efforts, and we took additional actions during the quarter to increase shareholder return. Along those lines, we have much positive news to report, including a wave of new approvals, including Exubera and Sutent in both the US and in Europe, Lyrica to treat generalized anxiety disorder in Europe and Eraxis to treat candidemia and invasive esophageal candidiasis in the US.  

Several targeted acquisitions included an agreement to acquire Rinat Neuroscience, which is developing therapeutic proteins, and an agreement with Schwarz Pharma to acquire worldwide rights to Fesoterodine for overactive bladder, and we have kept our focus on enhancing shareholder value by purchasing approximately $1 billion of our stock in the first quarter. We now expect to purchase up to $4 billion of our shares during 2006.  

We remain comfortable with our 2006 full-year financial guidance for revenues and adjusted diluted earnings per share, as well as our forecast for 2007 and 2008. This quarter demonstrated our determination to navigate this period and create a Pfizer for the next generation. We are making good progress, and we are determined to succeed.  

Before we get to your questions, David Shedlarz needs to remind you of our cautionary disclosure language concerning this afternoon's conference call.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER INC.: This afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2005 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. Also in this call, we will be discussing financial and other information, as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the Company's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K dated April 19, 2006. This report is available on our website at  www.pfizer.com , in the For Investors SEC Filings by Pfizer section. Back to you, Hank.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, David. And now we are ready for your questions.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Roopesh Patel, UBS.  

ROOPESH PATEL, ANALYST, UBS: My question is on Lipitor. I'm just trying to understand what will make Lipitor perform more favorably during the remainder of this year than it has in the first quarter. Today's earnings release acknowledges that Lipitor's $13 billion or 7% growth target for the year is aggressive, and that this quarter's 3% growth is below expectations, and this is despite the acceleration seen in the overall statin category. So, given that competition from here seems likely to only intensify further, I'm interested in your thoughts on what will make Lipitor's performance more favorable from here on.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, part of the answer is hidden within your question. One is competition will intensify. By that, I mean the Pfizer competition will intensify; we're on offense here. And secondly, the market is now growing at much higher rates than it was earlier in the first quarter and certainly in the second half of last year. But let me ask Karen to start with the reasons that we are still reaching for that $13 billion target.  

KAREN KATEN, VICE CHAIRMAN OF PFIZER INC. AND PRESIDENT OF PFIZER HUMAN HEALTH, PFIZER INC.: There are several reasons. One is the clinical database continues to unfold, and it's very powerful. We have increasing data that was presented at ACC, a subset of the TNT analysis, that shows that renal impaired patients do very well on 80 milligrams of Lipitor, a great improvement in renal function. So the database continues to grow.  

We also are seeing increased field force productivity. Our share of voice in the field has increased relative to competitors in the first quarter versus the second half of last year. This follows our field force reorganization in the fall of '05. And we are in a very favorable contracting position. We have long-term contracts already signed for Lipitor, many of which extend through the end of '07. Most of our contracts have Lipitor on Tier Two, and we are in 85% of the Medicare plans. So we feel that we, in all the areas that count for performance, we are in a good position.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me just underscore that. New clinical data, new advertising, our sales force newly realigned and producing more effective calls than ever, very strong market growth and very strong contracting and formulary position -- we think that's plenty to work with.  

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson, Prudential Securities.  

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: A couple of lines of questions. The first is that I guess basically you're saying that Lipitor is below plan year to date. Yet, Hank, you just said that you're comparable with earnings guidance for the year and beyond. The question is, if Lipitor falls short of that $13 billion figure for the year, where do you feel you have the most flexibility in the P&L, such that the earnings guidance won't be affected?  

Second question is on your comment about Lipitor having coverage of 60% of commercial lives through '07, I guess to put that in context, hoping you can tell us what the coverage was in 2005 and what it is in 2006. I'm sure it's a lot higher than 60% in 2005.  

And then, that's for your commercial book of business. How about your Medicare book of business?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me deal with the first one, and then I'll ask Peter Brandt to comment on formulary coverage. We have a long history of achieving our targets. Unfortunately, we very seldom make them the way we plan them. We are not expecting a Lipitor shortfall; however, if we do have one, there may well be upside in other product lines, and there may well be upside in new products, particularly those that we have not yet launched. And some of those look like they are going to come earlier than we had expected in our plan.  

Secondly, we have expense flexibility. You saw some of that in the first quarter. We are building a contingency for exactly the sort of concerns that you are expressing here. My own personal view is that's all right for this year; we can achieve this year's numbers. But how we do that has implications for the future years. I think achieving our plan as we designed it, with admittedly aggressive goals for Lipitor and Celebrex -- if we fall short, we will work really hard to make it up, and we have a good record of doing that. I'd much rather do it the way we planned it, because that's a better basis for growth in '07 and '08.  

Let me ask Peter Brandt to comment on the formulary coverage, both in the managed care and the Medicare market.  

PETER BRANDT, SVP, PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS FINANCE, LATIN AMERICA, PLANNING AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND PFIZER HEALTH SOLUTIONS, PFIZER INC.: Sure. To clarify, what we put in the release, the contracts that we currently have in place, the point that we were trying to stress in the release is that they run throughout the end of the 2006 or the end of 2007 or, in some cases, the end of 2008. So there is no, if you will, kind of a trap door or cliff that we are going to fall off at midyear this year from a contracting point of view.  

And the 60% figure that's in there -- that is meant to illustrate that we have been very active and aggressive in advancing the contracting cycle. So normally, at this point in time, we would begin the process of recontracting, if you will, with all of our commercial book of business for the managed care and PBM plans to contract through 2007. And we have already accomplished that to the tune of 60% of the covered lives. And as I mentioned, a number of the contracts even go out through full year 2008.  

So we are ahead of, if you will, the timing in which we usually engage in contracting for the year 2007. To the point of, how does it compare to previous years or what is our benchmark in this, to tell you on the Medicare side first -- then I'll come back to the commercial side -- we are in Tier Two with 85% of the Medicare PDPs. And that is a higher number than we traditionally have seen in our commercial book of business with Lipitor. So the fact that we have got 60% of the covered lives all the way through 2007 at this point in time is well ahead of our schedule, and compares favorably to where we have been in the past.  

TIM ANDERSON: And can you say what your commercial coverage is in '06? You said Medicare was, I think, 85% in '06?  

PETER BRANDT: 85% for Medicare is less than that in commercial. I believe it's about -- it's in the '70s.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes. High number. I guess the other thing that kind of intrigues me is a generic substitution is automatic. Of therapeutic substitution requires a new prescription, follow-up visits, additional tests. Obviously, a generic substitution is a lot easier than a therapeutic substitution. We just might be seeing the impact of generic simvastatin early, because once the patent expires, they then do an immediate generic substitution, as opposed to having to start the process of a therapeutic substitution, which is much tougher. So we are not quite sure of that yet, but it looks like we are getting an impact of that competition earlier than we'd expected.  

KAREN KATEN: We also know that Zocor has been generically contracted -- I mean, really aggressively contracted by Merck with Managed Care. So the price has already come down, and it will not have the milestone event that people are worried about, I think.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes, so I think we are seeing that impact already.  

OPERATOR: David Moskowitz, Friedman Billings Ramsey.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN BILLINGS RAMSEY: Just on the 60% of commercial lives that are under contract now until '07, can you talk about how important those 60% of plans are for the Lipitor franchise? In other words, what component do they encompass of the total franchise? That would be number one.  

Number two, in terms of Norvasc, can you talk about your pricing strategy, especially as it relates to the conversion to the Caduet franchise? It looks like Caduet is starting to get some traction here. And also, I'd like to know if there is any stocking of Celebrex in the last quarter?  

And then lastly, I just want to dig in on the cost synergies. If I just use simple math and add up SG&A and R&D last year and look at your reported SG&A and R&D this year, it looks to me like you are only assuming about a 2% rate of growth on the underlying business to get to the 500 million in synergies. Is that a good way to look at it? And if it's not, can you talk about a formula that we might be able to use to start gauging the cost synergies going forward?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. The last one is a little more complicated than that. While David is trying to figure it out, I'll ask Peter Brandt to comment on the earlier pieces.  

PETER BRANDT: You asked a few questions earlier. One was about the 60% of covered lives. We don't have a definitive number for you, but there's no reason to believe that that mix would be any different from our book of business, our revenue-generating capability. But I would argue it's going to be roughly in the same ballpark, at this point.  

In terms of Celebrex and a stocking effect, what we have seen in the first quarter of this year is, if you will, because of a stabilization of the market and of Celebrex, we have seen a restocking at the retail level of our product, not at the wholesale level; the wholesale level was always just fine. And this is not to say they have overstocked at the retail level; it's back to where it should be, given the underlying demand. What we have seen in any one of our products, when you lose patents or, in this case, when there is a market event that drives volume down dramatically, destockings in both the wholesale and the retail level happen [quickly] and anticipates further declines in volume.  

So retail went too far, basically, in this case. And with the product stabilizing and now looking like it's turning back up, retail got their levels back up to what would normally be met by the demand that we are experiencing.  

And on your Norvasc pricing question, I will ask Marie-Caroline to handle that one.  

MARIE-CAROLINE SAINPY, VP, PFIZER INC.: There has been no change in the relationship between the price of Norvasc and Caduet. Caduet has always been priced as Norvasc (indiscernible) a discount, and that has not changed at all. So there is no pricing change. We also have noticed some pickup in the Caduet business, but there's no relationship with an increased cannibalization of Norvasc.  

HANK MCKINNELL: The strategy on Caduet was to provide a benefit to the Managed Care plan, which is a small discount. But equally importantly, there is a major benefit to the patient because there is one co-pay, not two co-pays, which is a bit of a negative for the Managed Care plan. But we try to balance all that out. And yes, Caduet should be much more important to us.  

Next question.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: I think that he wants us (multiple speakers).  

HANK MCKINNELL: Oh, I'm sorry. David on cost synergies.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Let's kind of break this down a little bit, and hopefully this is helpful in terms of comparing SI&A and R&D costs year to year. Last year in the first quarter we had no cost synergies whatsoever. We had $0.5 billion worth of cost synergies in the first quarter of this year. About 300 of those came from SI&A and about 100 from R&D. We also have a factor reducing expenditures related to foreign exchange, which reduced expenditures in SI&A and R&D by about another $100 million. So if you discount for both of those factors, you pretty much have comparable expenditures year to year in terms of SI&A and R&D in aggregate.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Now, we are being very prudent in expenses in the first quarter. I think it was Tim who asked that question. Yes, we are holding back on expenses, but we also have five more products to launch this year. So you are going to see a pickup in spending around those launches, obviously.  

KAREN KATEN: And historically, R&D ramps up toward the end of the year, so you will see those savings be spent over time.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: As you go through the year, you're going to see expenditures likely increase from a couple of factors. The foreign exchange favorability factor on expenditures will disappear in the second half of the year. You have the phasing in terms of new product introductions. And you have the normal phasing that relates to the buildup of our clinical programs, as well as our promotional programs, over the course of the year.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And the adapting to scale initiative will start to annualize in the second half. So it's a complicated formula, but I think we have given you enough of the pieces you can probably figure it out, and we'll, on our next quarter, try to be a little more specific on what's driving expense growth here.  

OPERATOR: Al Rauch, A.G. Edwards.  

AL RAUCH, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: The international revenues seemed a little bit lower than we were expecting, even taking account the foreign exchange. Is there any explanation for that?  

HANK MCKINNELL: I was actually trying to hold off answering this question until David Risinger asked it, because he is the one who closely analyzes growth rates. Of course, it's always this year over last year, and the growth rate is almost always more to do with last year than it is this year. So those year-to-year comparisons you have to look at carefully. And I'll ask Ian Read, who runs our Canadian, European and African and Latin American, now, businesses to comment on year-over-year growth comparisons.  

IAN READ, VP OF PFIZER INC. AND SVP OF PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER INC.: Well, if you want to look at Lipitor per se, Lipitor was minus 3 on the reported, which goes to plus 4 when we reverse out exchange. And then, when you adjust for the negative comparisons in Germany and for movements in Japan, the underlying Lipitor growth goes to about plus 9. That's a big component in the overall growth rate. In Europe itself the growth rate has been affected by LOE, so LOE and Celebrex accounts for another 5 points in growth rate.  

HANK MCKINNELL: But lots of exclusivity.  

IAN READ: Yes.  

OPERATOR: David Risinger, Merrill Lynch.  

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Fortunately, I have a few more questions here. First of all, in terms of the Norvasc situation, I wanted to ask a legal question. Assuming that a court decision on Norvasc doesn't occur before March of '06, is it your understanding that Mylan can launch during your pediatric exclusivity without any legal risk, because the patent itself will have expired and you had not filed within the 45-day window against Mylan? And as part of that, are you considering any sort of settlement that could soften the impact?  

And then, my second question is with respect to Indiplon, it has not been filed ex-US yet. And I'm just wondering if there are any plans to file it ex-US.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Jeff, on Norvasc?  

JEFF KINDLER, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER INC.: If we do not have a decision by that time, we have every ability to go in a court and seek a preliminary injunction pending the resolution of the case. And that's what we would do. If they chose to launch at risk, we would challenge that. We have already won one of these Norvasc cases, and as a result we have a very strong position that we will win on the merits. And therefore, I would be fairly comfortable asking a judge to enjoin them, pending the resolution of the case, since we have a very high likelihood of success [and winning]. So we are not very concerned about that.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And Marie-Caroline, on Indiplon?  

MARIE-CAROLINE SAINPY: Regarding Indiplon, the insomnia market and pricing level are very different in the US and outside of the US. So Indiplon is mainly a US product. That said, it will be [tried] in some limited number of countries for which there is a good commercial rationale. But it will not be [for filings] outside of the US.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I'll take this opportunity to respond to the Lipitor growth question. Ian has already given you an important reconciliation of what is going on underneath the reported growth, and obviously it's quite a significant difference from the reported number, due to exchange and the German annualization effect. Let me ask Peter Brandt to comment on the US growth rates of Lipitor, which also are masking maybe more underlying strength than might be apparent from the reported number.  

PETER BRANDT: When you look at the US performance in the first quarter for Lipitor, you see TRx growth of 1.5% and revenue growth of 3%. And as we have done in previous meetings or calls, we would like to walk through kind of the components of how you go from TRXs to revenue. Unfortunately for us, in this first quarter it's almost the exact opposite of what we were looking at in the first quarter or even the first half of 2005, where if you recall in the first half of 2005 for Lipitor, if you added up TRx growth, took into account the price impact and took into account the mix impact, you still came to a growth number that was far short of what we were seeing in revenue growth. And there's always kind of a delta of unexplained difference or audit error, if you will, that dissipates throughout the year. So we always see a greater delta in the first quarter, less of a delta by midyear. And by the time you get to year end, you come fairly close to having the component pieces work into the total.  

So for the first quarter of this year, we have got TRx growth in the US of 1.5%. The favorable mix impact should be adding about 2 percentage points to our growth. And then, when you look at price, which again is a combination of list price change plus also any change in rebates, that should be adding about another 5 or 6 percentage points. So we would have anticipated seeing revenue growth closer to 9% in the US, as opposed to the 3% revenue growth we are posting. And again, I think that's -- so, as I said, now it's the reverse of what we saw in the first quarter of last year, but that 6 or 7% delta usually mitigates as the year goes on.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And it is not changes in inventory; they are comparable year over year.  

PETER BRANDT: That is absolutely correct; it is not an inventory issue.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, I hope that clarifies that for everybody.  

OPERATOR: Chris Shibutani, JPMorgan.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: If I could switch over to Exubera, both the US launch timing, you said about midyear. Obviously, one of the most important events industrywide is the ADA meeting in June. Is there a reason why you wouldn't be launching there?  

And then, in Europe, recent headlines about a UK organization doing cost-benefit analyses, somewhat of a discouraging recommendation. Can you comment about whether we can anticipate any more of these type headlines in Europe, what your status is for launch timing there for that product?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you for that question. Exubera is an extremely important product for us, for competitive reasons, obviously. It's still midyear; we certainly will have a major presence at ADA. The recent decision by NICE is certainly disappointing, not only for us but for patients. Let me ask Ian Read to comment on that and, in particular, what we will be doing to try to reverse what we think is an incorrect decision before the final guidance is published.  

IAN READ: Vis-a-vis NICE, I would just like to indicate that it is a preliminary advice, and we have seen several of these preliminary advices which are then reversed, once the [public are exposed to] the decision. We expect that to happen with Exubera; there has been quite an outcry in the last couple of days in the press. This discussion will take six months in the UK, and we expect Exubera to get back onto listings.  

HANK MCKINNELL: We went through a similar experience with Aricept, you will recall, last year or -- I guess it was last year -- where that decision was also adversed on the preliminary and reversed by the final.  

IAN READ: It took about a year to turn around in Aricept, so we expect about six months for Exubera in the UK.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: And in the balance of other European countries, is there a sense of timing about when you'd launch?  

IAN READ: Well, launch timings in the rest of Europe are delayed by pricing, so this whole issue of HTA will be worked out before then.  

HANK MCKINNELL: You need to negotiate price with government before you launch, and that typically adds six months to a year and in fact, in and of itself, is a cost control mechanism.  

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, Cowen & Co.  

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: I have two questions, first one on cost synergies. It's hard to analyze cost synergies going forward, because we don't know what Pfizer expected to spend in 2007 or 2008. So could you specifically tell us the expected trajectory of the expense lines during 2007 and 2008, including the cost synergies? So in other words, will SG&A during this time grow, will it be flat, or will it decline? And maybe similar thoughts on R&D.  

And secondly, Hank, you said a few minutes ago that some new products could come earlier than expected. And I'm wondering if you were referring to any specific product?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, let me take the second one. I may have misled you a little bit. Earlier than our plan -- when you say expected, you have to say who expected it. There's a couple that look like they may be in the marketplace before we had planned, Exubera probably being the most notable example.  

On cost savings, what we said initially, how we set the goal, was $4 billion out of the base of 2005 by 2008. And then beyond that, we manage expenses as you normally manage expenses, in line with business performance. So this year, for example, we will be taking $2 billion out of the base that existed in 2005, and then manage our expenses based on what is we have to do and to make the P&L work the way we want it to work. That in the plan produced fairly high growth rates; they were in the 5 to 7% range, absent the AtS savings, because we have a lot to do -- a lot to do in research, launching six new products; that obviously requires spending. We will, as I have said already, manage that spending level absent AtS. In fact, we may even do a little better our AtS savings. But that we kind of put in the bank, and then we manage the P&L from there going forward.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: A couple of factors that may help you in this regard -- we currently are not changing the full-year target for at least -- for either SI&A or R&D. Remember, R&D is at $7.8 billion, SI&A at $17.4 billion. We are slightly pointing to maybe a higher level of AtS cost savings. We were originally talking about $2 billion. Given the fact we were able to secure about 0.5 billion in the first quarter alone, we are now talking about at least $2 billion.  

I think the level of quarterly spending is going to be driven less by the increment in terms of AtS and more by the phasing of programs and the introduction of new product lines, which are going to come for the latter part of the second half of the year. So I think watching the introduction of new products, as well as the phasing of our normal clinical and promotional programs, is really going to be a driver in terms of quarterly spending.  

STEVE SCALA: I understand you have a lot to do in 2006, but you are likely to have a lot to do in 2007 and 2008 as well, including launching even more new products and still defending Lipitor. So we should conclude, then, that the cost lines will grow? SG&A and R&D will grow during this time, is that correct?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: We also talked about for '07 and '08. That's the period of time we're going to start to leverage the P&L. We'll start to get some growth at the top line. In both '07 and '08, we are pointing to high single-digit growth at earnings per share, so I'd say that you're going to get the leveraging power in terms of expenditures showing up more so in '07 than '08.  

OPERATOR: George Grofik, Citigroup.  

GEORGE GROFIK, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: First, with Lipitor script trends tracking a little below expectations, and given any insight you might have from your contract negotiations with Managed Care, can you confirm that in 2007 it is still your expectation Lipitor will grow in the US?  

And second, can you quantify the extent to which the conversion, the dual eligibles from Medicaid to the Part D plans, may have benefited US sales in the quarter?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, we certainly are expecting Lipitor growth in 2007. There will be yet more clinical data showing the unique advantages of Lipitor to patients at risk of heart attacks and strokes. And remember also the impact of generic simvastatin is a one-year event. It doesn't happen again in '07. So the growth rate could very well accelerate because of the absence of that impact in '07. And Peter, could you comment on the Medicaid versus Part D?  

PETER BRANDT: We don't have a definitive number. We have been analyzing this, as has a number of the market research companies as well. It does appear that there has been a boost to a number of the therapeutic areas in terms of prescription data that we are all seeing that are more relevant for the age group that are in Medicare. With that said, we haven't yet been able to [key down] specifically what impact it may have already had. It does strike us, at least, that some of the early January data, weekly data and then even the month of January, that we all saw that looked like a bit of a bump-up -- it's hard to attribute that directly to the Medicare Part D program, only because it is just so early to get that kind of an increase. But it is something that we do think is going to be a slightly favorable impact for us in a couple of key categories throughout this year.  

OPERATOR: Chris Schott, Banc of America.  

CHRIS SCHOTT, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Any change in your view of kind of small/mid-sized company M&A in '06 with this increased share buyback? I believe some of your plans for additional acquisitions was one of the reasons behind the prior $1 billion target for '06.  

And the second question is on Lyrica, in terms of the uptick we're seeing for that product. Can you just kind of walk-through within the different indications where you are seeing kind of the greatest traction thus far?  

HANK MCKINNELL: On the interaction between acquisition, licensing and share repurchase, you are correct in that there is an element of keeping your powder dry here. But we did go through the first quarter without spending as much as we had kind of kept in reserve, and are starting to release that as we approach the end of the year. We obviously have more than sufficient cash flow to balance out that equation. And, if we had to make a choice -- which I don't think we will, but if we had to -- an attractive acquisition of intellectual property or product would take precedent over share repurchase. But at the moment, it looks like we can do both. That's certainly our plan.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Hank, can I just expand upon that for a moment? This is not -- the increase in the share repurchase is not a function of our enthusiasm or capability to pursue business development and new product opportunities on behalf of the Company. In fact, as our Chief Scientist likes to point out, we're closing just about one deal a month at this point in time.  

What this is is a reflection of the fact that Pfizer is generating cash flow from ongoing operations of over $16 billion in '06. So we can do both. I think, with that level of comfort, and with discussions with the rating agencies in terms of their level of comfort as well, with our cash flow from operations, we were able to increase the commitment up to $4 billion for the full year.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And Karen on Lyrica business?  

KAREN KATEN: On Lyrica, as you point out, it has had extraordinarily successful launches in every market it's been introduced. There are more than 1 million patients have now been prescribed Lyrica since we launched it. The market share in the US is growing nicely. It's the agent of choice already for diabetic peripheral neuropathy and postherpetic neuralgia. So it has great acceptance in the primary care marketplace. We also have seen that market, DPN/PHN, grow by 21% in terms of new prescriptions during the first three months following the Lyrica launch. So it has created market for these patients and, as a result, has grown substantially.  

In addition, overseas it has done extremely well, as you know. We have done well in every market. We have got a 12% script share in Germany, a 22% share of sales in Italy; it's doing very, very well. And now, of course, on top of those current indications, we will have the generalized anxiety disorder indication in Europe, which was just approved in the quarter.  

HANK MCKINNELL: One of the most successful launches ever.  

OPERATOR: Mario Corso, Summer Street Research.  

MARIO CORSO, ANALYST, SUMMER STREET RESEARCH: A question on Lipitor. In terms of expectations going forward, so internationally, when we exclude foreign exchange effects, would that 4% type of growth seem reasonable? And in the US, if you think you're seeing the generic effect of Zocor, perhaps, early, would you then expect that we will not see much more market share erosion as we get into June and beyond June?  

And then finally, in terms of CTEP data, my understanding is late-breaker deadlines for AHA are June 30th. So is there any clarity yet on whether we can see some data at AHA? Or is it more likely going to be ACC?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, that last one is a complicated question, since we don't control it. But let me deal with Lipitor first. In the US, our goal is to gain market share. We've had enough of losing market share here; it's time for us to get back on the offensive. So Peter Brandt is holding his head over here, but that's the goal.  

On international, 4% is not acceptable to me. What about you, Ian?  

IAN READ: If you look at the underlying growth, as I say, Germany makes Europe difficult to analyze. If you strip Germany out, you are looking at close to double digits in the European arena. So 4% is not acceptable, either.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And what you obviously realize is the potential for reducing the cost and personal impact of heart attacks and strokes is about four times larger than the sales of all the statins. So there's enormous opportunity for us to grow here.  

On torcetrapib --  

PETER BRANDT: So obviously, there are studies now coming down during the year, as the year progresses, and there will be some new stuff at AHA. However, what you are really asking about is the imaging data and studies. And the IVUS study -- this is the largest cohort of IVUS patient study ever run. We certainly won't have anything in June to be able to go to the AHA with, and I find it hard to believe that we will have data both in-house and analyzed by the time the November meetings occur this year. So we doubt that.  

Now, IVUS is just one component of all of our imaging studies. We also have carotid artery studies ongoing as well, and those are even later to roll out. So the magnitude of this study being driven out of the Cleveland clinic again is pretty large. And Dr. Nissen has never really had anything on this scale to be able to do before. And so we want to make sure we get this right and not rush it.  

So that's a long way to say probably nothing at Heart Association meetings in November.  

HANK MCKINNELL: There will be studies, but not the --  

PETER BRANDT: Not the IVUS studies that everybody is waiting on -- that we all are waiting on.  

OPERATOR: John Boris, Bear Stearns.  

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I don't mean to pick on Ian, but I would like to go back to international Lipitor. Is it possible to just get a breakout and a little bit more granularity on the percent of sales that you derive from rest of world versus what you derive out of Japan, and what the growth rates are out of those two segments in dollar growth rate?  

And also in Japan, I think in April the cholesterol category is going to get hit with a price decrease. Can you just quantify what that price decrease might be on Lipitor? And was that in your original assumption when you set your greater than $13 billion target?  

And then just one question for you, Hank. I guess Fortune recently had an article, an actually colorful picture of you in the article. But it did talk a little bit about succession planning. Can you just talk about that process? You obviously have three pretty well qualified candidates for the position. And is it your intention at some point in time between now and February of '08 to potentially elevate one of those people to a President or CEO position within that timeframe?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, let me just say initially we have three or four very well qualified candidates, so we are not short of talent within the Company, and that's certainly always been true. I do think your question is a good one, probably not one I should be answering here.  

KAREN KATEN: We would have to leave the room.  

HANK MCKINNELL: But I do think I will come to a conclusion or recommendation to the Board before -- the day before I walk out the door. So there probably will be some changes in organization structure, in anticipation of that transition. So no dates, no commitments, but I do think it will be an evolutionary process, not a decision at any point in time.  

Karen, do you have the numbers on Japan?  

KAREN KATEN: I don't have those.  

IAN READ: I have them here, if you want. So if you look at the first quarter, as an example, the total Lipitor franchise was, worldwide, 3.1 billion, of which the US was 1.9, international 1.1. Now, the international numbers, 905 was outside of Asia -- so that's Europe, Canada and Africa/Middle East -- and the rest is in Asia.  

So on the actual dollar growth rates outside of the US, I think the European numbers, Canadian numbers in the upper single digit, close to double digits. And we would expect in the Asian markets (indiscernible).  

HANK MCKINNELL: And most of the Asian markets is Japan, in fact. And there is a biannual price reduction which hit this April that was anticipated; it's within our plan. So it was planned for. There's always a little bit of an inventory dislocation, because the trade takes down inventories in advance of the price reduction and then runs them back up again. So we may see a little stronger business in the second quarter than we had in the first, but not enough to have a material impact on Pfizer overall.  

KAREN KATEN: So, when you exclude the two markets, Germany and Japan, which had unique circumstances, international non-US sales actually grew 9%, as we highlighted earlier.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Excluding currency also.  

KAREN KATEN: Yes, excluding currency.  

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, Credit Suisse.  

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: First of all, could you share some qualitative comments from the field on the impact of the ASTEROID data and how it may be either helping or hurting Lipitor? And secondly, the Zoloft sequential trend looked more extreme than is typical, with exclusivity lost in international markets. Is there anything unique happening here in this quarter?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, I hope there's no impact from the ASTEROID market. In fact, that would be against federal law, because it's not in their label yet. You did see a bit of a pickup in share of new prescriptions for a week, and then it went away at the end of the week. So I don't think there's much of an impact there. The validation of the IVUS tool is probably the most relevant here, not so much the impact on a particular product.  

And we are seeing a pickup in Zoloft in advance of the patent expiration in the US. But internationally, Ian, anything?  

IAN READ: I think what has affected it in Europe is, for probably the first time in memory, we have lost the patent across Europe all at one time. So the deacceleration looks a lot worse than it was for Norvasc, where Norvasc was (technical difficulty) in Italy and France and other countries. And the loss has been faster than we expected on Zoloft, as European companies become more efficient at buying generics when you go off patent, so slightly faster deterioration than we expected with Zoloft.  

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Morgan Stanley.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: On Geodon, I was wondering if there was a dual eligible benefit that you could help to quantify this quarter, because sales do look to have accelerated from sequential quarters. And secondly, in consumer healthcare, sales were down. And I was wondering if that is more a seasonal issue. But I'm looking back at prior quarters. This seems to be a consistent low to mid-single-digit grower, and in light of your plans to sell it, I would think that you would be working to dress it up, not to dress it down. So if you can talk about those two factors?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, let me deal with consumer healthcare sales, and then ask probably Joe Feczko to talk a little bit about what is really going on there, which I suspect has more to do with the CATIE data than the dual eligibles.  

CHC is on plan. It's probably reflecting -- I don't actually have a breakdown. It's probably reflecting new product launches last year versus this year. That's a very innovative business. Even Listerine, a 100-year-old brand, continues to launch new products. So it's on plan. It is down a little bit versus last year. Exchange is obviously part of the reason, but CHC is doing just fine.  

Geodon, Joe?  

JOE FECZKO, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: When you look at the recent data on Geodon, I think I think there's a couple of things going on. The CATIE data actually, when you get down underneath it, was very positive, we feel, for Geodon. Because, one, the efficacy looked comparable to the other [typical] anti-psychotics, even though we know that it really was not dosed at the most effective dose because, again, we have a dose titration in our label to get up to really the most effective dose.  

But even within that, about 40% of the patients at baseline had what would loosely be defined as sort of metabolic syndrome with the obesity, hypertension and what have you. And Geodon was the only drug within that category that actually had a positive impact, as far as weight reduction, triglyceride reduction, LDL reduction. So I think it was reinforcing a lot of the things we had said about Geodon in the past, as far as its good impact on metabolic effects in schizophrenics.  

And I think the other thing that is happening right now is that I think people are getting more comfortable with the safety profile of Geodon and are pushing the dose higher. We have always been hampered a little bit, I think, with the initial label and the fear of QTc changes, so there was a dose titration. And we knew also from our clinical studies that there was much better efficacy at the higher doses than the lower doses. And so I think psychiatrists are just getting more comfortable pushing the dose higher.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And Peter, any impact from dual eligibles?  

PETER BRANDT: Not that we have seen so far.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, mostly CATIE data, which should be good news for the future.  

Karen wanted to add something here.  

KAREN KATEN: We did get approval at the end of March for the oral suspension formulation of Geodon. (Multiple speakers).  

HANK MCKINNELL: That probably added a little bit, too. We have time for one more.  

OPERATOR: James Kelly, Goldman Sachs.  

JAMES KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I was wondering if, given Pfizer's leadership position in the industry and the research that you do, taking a look at industry-related issues, if you would have any comments on the so-called donut hole and the impact that that is going to have on the market, and where things are with perception among seniors, and what the industry can do to mitigate any of the issues around the so-called donut hole.  

HANK MCKINNELL: That's a really good issue, because most people will be hitting the donut hole just in advance of the '06 elections. So this is obviously an important question, and it certainly is in our interest -- we think it's in everybody's interest, but it's certainly in the industry's interest for Part D to be extremely successful, not only in terms of usage in revenues, but I do think access to modern medicine is going to improve health outcomes and bring down costs. So I think we're going to see a remarkable demonstration of the value of what we do. And unfortunately, the way it's designed, this donut hole is going to hit right around the elections.  

So Peter, maybe you can comment, or Karen, on the industry position or our position are?  

PETER BRANDT: I think the most important thing is exactly what you touched on, which is that, while there in all likelihood will be a bit made out of donut hole, it should not be enough to cast any shadow of a doubt on the benefit of the whole program. It is off, as you all know, to a very good start. We expect to see out of CMS, possibly this week -- if not this week, next week -- the latest enrollment numbers. But as we all know, the latest figures they put out were about 28 million of the 40 million people already engaged in Medicare Part D. So I think that the program is off to an extremely good start.  

In terms of the response, I know that it is something that we at Pfizer as well as the industry are actively looking at. It is something that at this point in time we don't have a specific proposal to go public with, but it is a concern that is high on our list, because it can't impinge upon the overall value of this program.  

HANK MCKINNELL: There is another compounding factor here, of course. In this donut hole, we would be very sympathetic to helping the low-income get access to the medicines they need. The problem we have had is HHS's view is that would not be allowed; that would be illegal. There has been a decision just this week, I guess, that said maybe that's okay. So I think we have to make sure we understand the legal status here, and then try to find a way for those who genuinely need help affording the medicines they need, as we have done in many, many other areas to help them through this period.  

KAREN KATEN: But that has to be done on a company-by-company basis.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes, exactly. That is company-by-company.  

So with that question, we thank you for your time and your support and conclude today's conference call. Thank you again.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc | rinbio : Rinat Neuroscience Corp | sanols : Schwarz Pharma AG
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060503e24j0018j
  


 HD
 Q4  2005  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,099 words
   PD
19 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Dr. McKinnell, you may begin.  

HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER: Hello, everyone, I am Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO, and welcome to Pfizer's fourth quarter 2005 conference call and webcast. I am in New York this afternoon with several of my colleagues you will hear from later. As always, thank you for your time and thank you for your interest and support. I will make a few brief comments and then we will get right to your questions. I do realize that several of you were not happy with our last conference call. We will try to do better today and on February 10.  

   TD
I'm pleased that our fourth quarter and full year results exceeded our earlier expectations of $1.92 to $1.94. There were two drivers of this better than expected performance. Human Health revenues were stronger than previously forecast, reflecting the early market success of Lyrica, better than anticipated performance in key markets such as Japan and Germany, better than planned performance in some key products such as Zyrtec and Norvasc, and an unanticipated two-week delay in the introduction of an azithromycin generic in the United States.  

Our results in the fourth quarter should be viewed in the context that there were four fewer business days in the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. That adds 6% to all growth rates. Our operating flexibility, notably our ability to reduce our expense base, also contributed to the better performance in the quarter. Particularly, we exceeded our 2005 cost saving targets from our Adapting to Scale initiative. We had originally targeted $400 million in 2005 savings. Our October guidance assumes $600 million of savings, and we achieved $800 million, significantly more than our earlier estimates.  

All of this is certainly good news. But we want to make clear that the factors that drove Pfizer's performance in 2005 may differ materially in 2006. On February 10 in New York we will provide a full update on our strategies and on the potential growth of our marketed medicines and new medicines in the pipeline. One point I want to emphasize today is that we are listening to you and to all of our shareholders. We have heard your questions about Pfizer's performance and prospects, and we also understand the focus on the leader of an important industry in these turbulent times.  

In summary we completed 2005 with positive news on many fronts, including double-digit, full year worldwide growth of Lipitor, a very successful Lyrica launch in the U.S. following successful lunches elsewhere. We received priority review for Sutent and Champix in the U.S. We won favorable decisions in key Lipitor and now Norvasc patent cases. Our AAA credit rating was reaffirmed by Standard & Poor's and Moody's. And based on our strong operating cash flow, we increased the dividend 26% for the first quarter of 2006.  

While 2005 was a challenging year due to expected patent expirations and unexpected unfavorable COX-2 news, we enter 2006 with renewed determination to do what we have always done best, bringing valuable important medicines to those who need them for the benefits of our patients and our shareholders.  

Before we get to your questions, David Shedlarz needs to remind you of our cautionary disclosure language concerning this afternoon's conference call. I will also ask Peter Brandt to discuss prescription growth, inventories and revenues since this question has already been raised. First, David.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, IR, PFIZER: This afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2004 annual report on Form 8-K and in our reports on Form 10-Q and 8-K.  

Also on this call we will be discussing financial and other information as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the most rightly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K dated January 19th, 2006. This report is available on our website at  www.pfizer.com  in the For Investors, SEC Filing by Pfizer Section. And now let me pass this to Peter.  

PETER BRANDT, SVP, PFIZER HEALTH SOLUTIONS, PFIZER: The two questions that Hank referred to that have come up and have come up in previous conference calls as well have to do with our inventory levels in the distribution channels, and how does one do the walk-through from prescriptions to revenue growth.  

Starting with the inventories, globally we believe that the level of inventories of our products in the distribution channels at the end of 2005 is very consistent with the inventory levels at the end of 2004. In addition, also quite consistent with inventory levels at the end of the third quarter of 2005. In total, very little change in our inventory levels.  

More specifically, in the U.S. our month on hand at the wholesale level is approximately 0.7 by our calculations, very much in keeping with the range that we always try to work with our partners in distribution channel of between 0.6 and 0.8. And again for the U.S. specifically that 0.7 months on hand is again consistent with levels that we had at the end of the third quarter of this year as well as comparable time period at the end of the fourth quarter last year.  

When we look across our products, the entire portfolio within the U.S., there is very little variation product by product with that 0.7 months as well.  

The second question that comes up is how do we walk from the total prescription growth rate to the revenue growth rate? The product that obviously is the most important one and comes up quite on is Lipitor. Let's take a look at the performance of Lipitor. As you know and you saw in the release on a worldwide basis Lipitor grew 12% or $1.3 billion worth of growth. And in the U.S. specifically it is over $800 million worth of growth and the same 12% growth rate, while total prescriptions grew 6%. How do we go from the 6% total prescription growth rate to the full year 12% revenue growth rate?  

Total prescriptions up 6. Then when we also look at the number of units per prescription over the full year that grew 2% as well relative to last year. Then you also have mix, which is a combination of unit movement to higher dosage forms, and then the price impact of, if you will, of those higher dosage forms. That added 5% to the growth rate of Lipitor in the U.S. To be more specific about that, that means we have seen a movement from the usage of the 10 milligram to more usage of the 20, 40, and 80 milligrams of Lipitor.  

Another component to this, one of the final pieces, is when you look at price. Now price is obviously a combination what we do on a list price basis that then bleeds through to the retail chains, as well as what we do in terms of rebating, both in terms of Medicaid as well as to managed care. On a full year basis price impact was approximately 2% for Lipitor. So underlying demand as well as mix changes as well as price changes, you've got 6% for total prescription growth, 2% for unit growth per RX, mix 5%, price 2% would indicate that Lipitor revenues could have grown approximately 15% in the U.S. And compares we think within the quarters of the ability to be able to forecast this and the data that we get to the 12% revenue growth that we actually demonstrated for Lipitor.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, David, thank you, Peter. And now we turn to your questions.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Michael Castner with Bernstein.  

MICHAEL CASTNER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: So don't get caught off guard next year with six extra, or the six deficient calendar days in Q4, how does that translate to the year-over-year comparisons for the quarter? And then also with the benefit as opposed to what you had reported in October, one of the things that it seems to me that cost must have come in much lower than you had been anticipating in October. So was there a point at which you tried to put on the breaks and spend significantly less, or did you just not have a great sense of where your costs were trending as of mid-October when you lowered your guidance?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Two questions. On the question of days, it is hard to have a different number of days in 2006 and 2005. What happened is a shift from days from the first quarter 2005 to 2006. I don't know how that compares next year. David, do you -- Peter?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes. Next year is pretty comparable quarter by quarter to 2005. We should not see the same anomalies that we saw in Q1 and Q4.  

HANK MCKINNELL: That is good news. On expense estimates, we did have a significant overshoot or overachievement in our Adapting to Scale cost reductions. That is certainly good news. The original target was 400 million. When we put out our estimates in October we saw we were going to do better. Within our estimate was an expectation of 600 million in savings, and we achieved 800. That is a good part of the difference here.  

Plus there were other operating expense controls. We are, as you know, a very little well-run Company and as we see a shortfall at the top line, we do start pulling back on expenses. That did happen all year. And we saw a little more of it than we expected in the fourth quarter. So basically good news, and a significant contributor to the overachievement this year.  

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson with Prudential Securities.  

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Just on one line item of guidance that you had in October was R&D of, I think unless I am wrong, 7.6 billion in '05. But in three month time you came in a full 200 million less than that. And I am just wondering was that part of AtS program? And then the second question, and maybe you talked about this at your February meeting, but on the [IVIS] trial results for torcetrapib, not the INT results but just the IVIS results, you said recently late '06 is when we would see what those findings are. But if I look at enrollment as having finished I think in mid '04, and this being an 18 month study says your results could be out basically almost now or early '06. I'm just looking for guidance on where I may be wrong here.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me ask John LaMattina, who heads our research efforts around the world to answer both questions. And maybe Joe Feczko can help out on the IVIS timing.  

JOHN LAMATTINA, SVP, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, PRESIDENT OF PFIZER GLOBAL R&D, PFIZER: On the R&D costs a couple of things. As we expected, the Adapting to Scale initiative had contributed to cost savings. But let me also caution you that around the cost savings, even though we spent last interestingly enough we have been able -- we spent more in 2005 on our portfolio of compounds than we had budgeted for. We were able to shift a lot of the costs from our non portfolio items to portfolio items. While we spent less, we were able to do more, which Hank was very pleased about.  

On the IVIS studies you have to remember enrollment is complete but people enrolled at different times. It is an 18 month study. But then once they have been on treatment for 18 months then they have to come back in. We have to repeat the procedures and then we have to analyze all the data. Again, Hank asks a lot of us when we are going to get these results, and we explained this to him as well, that yes, the enrollment is complete at a certain date, and 18 months later is another certain date, but then we have to get analyzed in the results and that will take a few months as well. Again, we're projecting the end of 2006.  

HANK MCKINNELL: You really have to focus on last patient, last visit which is a rolling number, given away the patients are enrolled.  

OPERATOR: Carl Seiden with UBS.  

CARL SEIDEN, ANALYST, UBS: Obviously versus expectations it was a very good quarter, but I'm just thinking about where we were three months ago; it probably would have been received even better. Since you beat your annual estimate before you lowered it a quarter ago, my question is really, Hank, fundamentally has anything changed relative to your ability to predict financial performance going forward? I understand the list of things that you have talked about that are better like Zithromax, Lyrica, Japan and Germany. But for a Company of Pfizer's size, one would expect a similar list of things sometimes up, sometimes down every quarter. Are we simply in a new place relative to either Pfizer's cost structure or external things that really limit your ability to predict financial performance?  

HANK MCKINNELL: That is a good question. I think the answer is in a word, no. But clearly there is more volatility in parts of our business. And I remember at the October meeting somebody asking if there was any reason we were expecting a delay in azithromycin generics. And I looked at Jeff and his answer and my answer was no. It turned out we got a two-week delay, which for a product the size of Zithromax is quite material.  

We also overachieved our AtS goal. That is something you hope for, but you don't build into a forecast. And we did get some pleasant surprise in the fourth quarter on a couple of products, Zyrtec and Norvasc, and a couple of countries did better than we expected. I don't think it is necessarily our ability to forecast. Good things happened in the fourth quarter and that is a positive.  

OPERATOR: [David Chan] with [Genison].  

DAVID CHAN, ANALYST, GENISON: Hank, I guess I'm wondering if you could comment -- the weekly prescriptions are obviously a little under unreliable, but there was a noticeable drop in the market share of Lipitor. And people are somehow tying it in their minds I guess maybe with some of the formulary changes at Express Scripts or others. And do you think in fact that is what is going on, or is there still a kind of salesforce dislocation, or do think just this is a weekly fluke and that the shares will go back to more normal numbers in the coming weeks?  

HANK MCKINNELL: I watch those numbers very closely. At 7:30 Monday morning I am looking at my computer screen. And the salesforce is actually well ahead of where it was before the reorganization. In spite of the loss of productivity during the period of the reorganization in the third quarter, it has now snapped back. People are in the field. They are enthusiastic, focused on the right issues. I think the salesforce at this point is a plus for us. It certainly was not in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter it turned positive. It certainly is very positive right now.  

The problem is for the last three -- last four weeks, every week has been its own story. Christmas fell in a different week last year than this year. New Year's fell in a different week last year than this year. I thought last week, the one ending January 6, would have been a clean week. It wasn't because New Year's ended up on a different day. I'm hoping the next week will be a clean week. I think we have had some difficult signal -- difficult to read signals for the last four weeks, which has been kind of frustrating I must admit.  

Let me ask Pat Kelly to comment on the market share and specifically the managed care formulary status.  

PAT KELLY, PRESIDENT OF PFIZER U.S. PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER: I think the story to report on that for Lipitor is quite positive, both on the remaining true fact of Lipitor's formulary acceptance in managed care and in commercial plans is in a preferred brand status, or otherwise known as Tier 2, more than any other branded statin. And that great performance is actually amplified with the institution and implementation of the Medicare drug benefit wherein Lipitor's formulary status goes up, because we have successfully negotiated with all the prescription drug plans under Medicare to insure a preferred brand status for Lipitor at a greater level than any other statin now on the market. We continue to believe that the prescriptions will continue to rebound and rise in concert with those new opportunities.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And the detailing numbers in key position offices are up quite strongly from the third quarter.  

DAVID CHAN: If I could just follow-up briefly, I think a few weeks back at the Morgan Stanley Unplugged Hank, you said Lipitor will be up this year. And I just wanted to -- that was in dollars or would that also be for total prescriptions?  

HANK MCKINNELL: We'll give you more detail than you might want at our February 10 analyst meeting.  

DAVID CHAN: You can never give us too much detail. I'm looking forward to it.  

HANK MCKINNELL: That is a very important question. We will discuss that in great detail on February 10.  

OPERATOR: David Moscowitz with Friedman Billings Ramsey.  

DAVID MOSCOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN BILLINGS RAMSEY: I appreciate the question. In terms of some of the formularies that have discontinued the coverage of Pfizer products, Express Scripts and Florida Medicaid, and potentially with lower volumes, could you speak to any rebate reversals that might have been included in the quarter? And also, in respect to the statement of factors being materially different in 2006 versus 2005, are we really talking about different factors or different mix of drivers, or is this a cautionary comment that you're making to us?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me take the second one of those. It is definitely a cautionary comment, and what I am saying is wait for February 10. I guess I will say my answer to that question will be delivered in great detail and comprehensiveness on February 10. There actually are no -- what did you call it, rebate adjustments? Rebates may be lower, but it is not really an adjustment of anything. Peter, would you like to address that?  

PETER BRANDT: Sure. Let me give you the Lipitor numbers for the fourth quarter that are analogous to the ones that I gave on the full year when we began the call, because I think it does highlight exactly the point that you're making. Because we did pay in essence a lower percentage of rebates on Lipitor in the fourth quarter for some of the reasons that you're alluding to. When you look at total prescription growth for Lipitor in the U.S. in the fourth quarter, it was 2%. And again we gain another percent because of the units per Rx growing, and then another 2% because of that mix issue that I referred to before, usage of 10 milligram moving to usage of 20, 40 or 80.  

Then for the first time in a long time we get a positive -- a much more substantial positive price benefit of 7 or 8% in the quarter for Lipitor, which is not a result of increasing our price, it is just the opposite. It is a result of paying fewer rebates, or lessening our rebates, if you will. And then the other -- so if you look at all those factors combined, you get underlying growth of Lipitor of 12 to 13% in the U.S. in the quarter. And then you have to back off that 6% due to the days issue, the number of days that Hank and David alluded to before. And that gets you pretty close to the underlying revenue number that we reported of 2.5% growth for Lipitor.  

OPERATOR: Tony Butler with Lehman Brothers.  

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: When you consider the acceleration on Adapting to Scale, Hank, is this principally a U.S. initiation that has allowed the 800 million versus the original 400 million? And will that geography continue to be the driver?  

HANK MCKINNELL: It is worldwide. In fact, this is a global effort with no country, no group excluded. The pace is quite different from organization to organization. For example, our Animal Health Division is all done. They have achieved the numbers, and it is back to business as usual, which is a commendable place to be. Manufacturing, on the other hand, is probably going to be the slowest, not because they are the slowest but because it just takes time to close plants and shift production to other sites. And you need regulatory authorization to do that in most cases. Probably we will see manufacturing lagging in this entire effort. It is good everywhere, but we are seeing more rapid adoption in some places than others. The U.S. international split is not one we look at very closely. My guess is it is pretty comparable. People are nodding, so I guess that is right.  

OPERATOR: Jamie Rubin with Morgan Stanley.  

JAMIE RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just to follow-up to Tony's question. You did 800 million this year, which was double what you expected. I'm just wondering if that is a result of -- it sounds to me like it is a result of achieving those synergies faster than you expected, not finding an additional 400 million in synergies. I am just wondering how that plays out over the course of the next three years. Does that mean that if you had originally assumed or targeted 1.5 billion or so of synergies next year that number is now significantly lower because you found the synergies, or achieved those synergies this year?  

My second question relates to Lipitor overseas. If you could break down the components of sales growth, how Lipitor is doing in some of the overseas markets, namely Germany.  

HANK MCKINNELL: On the first question, I guess I should first thank you for hosting the conference in New York last week. I enjoyed it. On the cost savings issue, I have always said be careful what you ask for because you're going to get a lot of it. And I guess that is true here as well. We did double our estimate for this year. I don't think that will result in a higher overall goal. We're still looking for $4 billion over the three years. And that of course adds to 6 billion we have already taken out of our cost base through the two major acquisitions.  

There is still the opportunity for operating cost rationalization. And I don't doubt that outside the Adapting to Scale program certain businesses will be adapting their own scale to the level of their revenues and the growth of their revenues. But we're still looking over this three-year period to a cumulative, annual cost reduction of $4 billion.  

On your second question, let me ask Ian Read, who is in charge of our European and other markets to answer that question.  

IAN READ, AREA PRESIDENT, PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER: On Lipitor and full year you're looking at -- you can (technical difficulty) area of 6% Lipitor growth. If you strip out Germany, it is 13%, so Germany had a substantial impact on the growth. Germany itself was negative 54. We have now seen that stabilize with Germany at about a 15% value share in IMS, and we expect it to remain there until we turn around the situation and get back to reimbursement in Germany. We have a robust plan for that, and there are changes in the law which give us optimism we can turn that around in '06.  

Now in the other countries you're looking at France, plus 13% growth, you're looking Canada, plus 12, UK, Ireland's plus 26. Overall it is a very robust growth outside of Germany.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And most of these countries we already face generics in the statins. That is one of the reasons we are pretty comfortable with the difficulty of therapeutic substitution.  

Germany is very interesting. The 1.1 million Germans on Lipitor, which is called Sortis in Germany, 25% chose to pay the part charge and stay on Sortis or Lipitor. 25% ended up on no therapy. Patients at risk of heart disease went from effective control of lipids on Lipitor to no treatment. 50% switched to less than than optimal treatment. So sure it saved money in the short term, but as you all know, I think it is a lot better to prevent those heart attacks and strokes rather than wait and have to treat -- pay for the treatment of the heart attacks and strokes. Peter Brandt, you wanted to add to this?  

PETER BRANDT: Just one comment to fill in one more blank on your question about international performance of Lipitor. As you know from the documents we sent out, total Lipitor growth was 13% internationally. If you adjust for Germany, the points that Ian was making, that growth goes up by approximately 5 percentage points.  

OPERATOR: David Reisinger with Merrill Lynch.  

DAVID REISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I had a couple of questions. First, for Hank, could you give us an update on Florida Healthy State? That was a program that you had discussed historically. Second, for David Shedlarz, if you could discuss the heightened degree of variability in the quarterly financials. And then third, with respect to Germany and Lipitor a year ago when there was the price cut in Germany, I think it was communicated at the time that there was going to be a second price cut in January of '06. And I'm just wondering if that happened, and if that is going to have any incremental effect or not?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me ask Peter Brandt to discuss the Florida program since he was there.  

PETER BRANDT: We are in our fifth year of operation with the Florida Healthy State Program. And because of at least a year plus lag in getting all the claims data, we should be having year three results, including financial claims data, hopefully by the end of January. It perhaps could be sometime in the early part of February.  

A preliminary look at year three and program to date through three years looks very similar to the first two years. In other words, we are exceeding our guaranteed cost savings by a wide margin; at least 50% over the guarantee. And we what we are seeing in all three years of the program to date are a continuation of extremely high engagement rates of this Medicaid population. And then in that population very strong evidence of sustained behavior modification, which in turn is leading to a continual growth in the improvement of clinical status. The results that we were able to demonstrate after year one got better because people are in the program longer in year two. And they look -- we believe they will look even better by the time we get to year three.  

That has resulted in a continuation of a decline from the projected cost of the state of Florida to treat these individuals. At this point we've got over 150,000 Floridians that are part of the program, well over 20,000 of them being very high-risk individuals at their disease states, and the results continue to look very good.  

DAVID REISINGER: Was that renewed at the end of last year?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Was it renewed at the end of last year? What is the status of the program?  

PETER BRANDT: It was indeed renewed at the end of last year. What we have is a contract with the state of Florida. I believe it is either through June or September of this year. And then the state of Florida is going to at our -- we have been working with them over the last three or four years. There are parts of the program that the state of Florida will be taking over themselves. And then they will be turning that over to kind of an RFP process to any vendor who wants to fill that need with that. And at that time Pfizer and Pfizer Health Solutions will determine if we want to continue our involvement with the state of Florida.  

But one of the things we have been working very hard on is getting Florida to the point where they can have this be a sustainable program with the help of some others, perhaps, but after five years we wanted to get them a little bit on their own legs.  

HANK MCKINNELL: The very important message from this program, of course, is that you achieve better health outcomes and significantly lower costs by managing care, putting the patient at the center, rather than managing cost, which points the payer at the center. David, do you just want to add any more to variability?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes. I think in large part the issue of variability is a function of a lot of good news. So when you take a look at the fact that the Company is going through a major restructuring effort and has been able to accelerate it quite significantly. That subjects that benefit to the Company to a certain degree of ranges and variability.  

We have an opportunity we will talk about on February 10 in terms of a large number of new products, and they are going to define the new Pfizer. And obviously, their availability, their penetration into global marketplace, which will define the future of Pfizer, offers the natural degree of variability associated with any new product. And then increasing access to what we do in terms of our pharmaceutical medicines through things like Medicare Part D will drive a certain degree of variability as well. The variability is being driven in many, many respects by favorable things that the Company looks forward to and obviously has to navigate well.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And on the Florida Healthy State Program -- Karen reminds me that we're replicating the fundamental message here that access to medicines and access to care reduces costs and improves outcome -- is we're replicating this study in the Medicare population as one of only eight pilots authorized by HHS. In partnership with Humana we are managing a large number, or will be -- I guess we are already.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We are.  

HANK MCKINNELL: We launched January. Already managing a large number of Medicare population in Western Florida in partnership with Humana, an effort we call Green Ribbon Health. And that is one we will be highlighting on February 10. Further price reductions in Germany, Ian.  

IAN READ: Yes, we expect the price reductions if not January 1, then April. It is unclear at this moment the extent of the reductions as the rules are being changed. I expect it will be above 10%. We expect minimal impact on our Lipitor franchise. Presently it has 15% value share. Most of the patients are either paying the copay or they are in private plans that cover the price of Lipitor. So we expect minimal impact on (technical difficulty).  

HANK MCKINNELL: This is another interesting example of a failed policy. In an effort to control costs the German government continues to use government price controls to push down price. The result is every year cost goes up. What we are advocating and demonstrating in many places around the world is that by managing care, by putting the patient at the center, you achieve your objectives of better outcomes and lower cost much more effectively than through government price controls.  

OPERATOR: Chris Shibutani with JP Morgan.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: On the Adapting to Scale and the cost saving initiatives, Hank, you had characterized the relative progress at different parts of your business, Animal Health versus manufacturing. The R&D spending level was lower than we had expected. You commented a little bit about that. But could you tell us where you are on the case or timing of the Adapting to Scale initiatives there? And then could you also clarify a little bit more what you meant by having a net increase in spending on portfolio products? I think I get that, but if there something more clarifying that would be helpful.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me ask John Lamattina to answer that.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Specific to the second part of your question, we were able to invest more money this past year in programs like [Myravirox] and some of our oncology programs in 2005 that we originally hadn't budgeted as much for doing different indications and the like. And we were able to do that despite the fact that we had some financial constraints, because we took money out of other parts of the Corporation.  

The other thing to keep in mind in the reduced to spend in the fourth quarter, which I think is what seems to be highlighted with most people is that we include in our R&D spend there is royalty or milestone payments. And there were some that were delayed from December of this month to January of 2006. The overall reduction you see is also partly due to that as well.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I almost hate to raise it, but of course we did have fewer days in the quarter, and that means fewer days to spend money, so that affects revenue but it also affects expenses.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: One of the things that I would like to reinforce that John is highlighting for R&D but it is implicit throughout the Company. This almost singular focus on the $4 billion is missing a lot of the benefit associated with what we're doing in restructuring and refocusing the Company. There's a lot that is going on in terms of allocating expenses from lower value added activity to higher value activity. And at same time there's a lot that is going on in terms of streamlining anywhere from decision-making to basic governance in the Company. And that fluidly and reorganization is also critically important to Pfizer, including the reallocation of funds to things that drive the future of the Company, in particular research and promotional support.  

OPERATOR: [Lloyd Hicman] with Earnest Investment.  

LLOYD ZACKMAN, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: This is [Lloyd Zackman] at Bernstein. Given that Lipitor's mix impact was about 5%, which was a good part of the overall revenue increase for the year, I was wondering if you could tell us if there are any other of your major drugs that have a large mix component there, and also what this might mean to revenues overall?  

HANK MCKINNELL: No, there is really no other product that has this level of impact. Remember the mix change within Lipitor is physicians better controlling cholesterol, lowering cardiovascular risk by upping the dose of Lipitor. That is increasingly documented in our clinical studies. And treating to new targets there has been a wealth of clinical data showing the benefit of increasing the dose of Lipitor, further reducing LDL either to guidelines or below guidelines. And that is obviously happening. And we're encouraging that because it is in the interest of patients, and we also think the interest of payers.  

OPERATOR: Robert Hazlett with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.  

ROBERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Regarding Lyrica -- a couple of product questions I guess -- Lyrica, a solid launch is underway there. We have seen a fairly significant amount of journal advertising focused on the pain indication. Can you give us breakdown of its use epilepsy versus pain if you can?  

Secondly, Celebrex, we haven't seen really any major signs of life in terms of script growth. Do you still believe in the re-invigoration of its franchise? And if you do, when should we begin to see that reflected in scripts? And just lastly, the anti-CTLA4 program, when might we expect data from the Phase III studies?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me address the last one. We will address the CTLA4 on February 10. And Pat Kelly on the other questions.  

PAT KELLY: Starting with Celebrex, which was your last of the product questions, I would point you to the December monthly IMS prescription report, which will indicate that Celebrex reached a 52-week high in market share of 10.9%, which makes it the highest share that Celebrex achieved all year. And it begins to more closely approximate the share that it was generating prior to all of the COX-2 challenges that have occurred.  

We believe the rebound on Celebrex has begun. And we believe it will continue as more and more doctors begin to appreciate that there is a strong clinical benefit to the COX-2 medications in arthritis pain and inflammation. And that the safety record of Celebrex in particular continues to be validated with everything from Lancet to British Medical Journal to other upcoming publications, which show that is the most extensively studied insaid ever. And it is demonstrating no greater cardiovascular risk than any other insaid.  

That point is beginning to sink in to physicians, and I think will only accelerate the rebound. On Lyrica it is important to note that the epilepsy market and the neuropathic pain market are quite different in size. The epilepsy market, while very important from a medical need point of view, is quite small because there are not that many epileptic patients. However, there are an extraordinary number of patients with neuropathic pain, and many of which are not satisfied with the pain relief they are currently receiving. And thus have been responsible for a lot of the rapid uptake in Lyrica, because of the strong clinical benefit the product provides. Again it is an unfair comparison to ask which is contributing more. Pain will always contribute more because it is a much larger market.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I think we have time for two more questions.  

OPERATOR: James Kelly with Goldman Sachs.  

JAMES KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I have a couple of questions about the gross margins, if I may, for David. In the third quarter report I believe that the commentary was that could be a decrease in throughput, especially given the day count, and a higher fixed cost [berg], and that is going to have an impact on gross margins going in the fourth quarter.  

Gross margins were down sequentially, but not really the lowest point that you've seen this year. So could you comment really on the throughput difference that you saw, the impact of AtS, whether it was just on the variable costs or some of the fixed costs, if you have been able to achieve any of those, and also on the impact of the change in the Lipitor rebate environment?  

And if I could just throw one on there with the [treebeat] environment. If you are going to have preferred brand status in Medicare in 2006, is that something we're going to see reversed in 2006?  

HANK MCKINNELL: The 2006 question we will take on February 10. Let me ask our CFO, Alan Levin, to discuss David's favorite subject, gross margins.  

ALAN LEVIN, EVP, CFO, PFIZER: The big difference on the fourth quarter versus the third quarter and cost of sales is really foreign exchange. We saw an appreciation of foreign currencies relative to the dollar at the sales line earlier in the year, and that is built into our inventories which are capitalized. And then brought into P&L (technical difficulty). So there is really a lag effect on that. And that was much more a fourth quarter phenomenon than anything else and accounts for some of the improvement that you see in gross margins going forward.  

We do continue our planned rationalization strategy, and so the capacity in the system is coming down as we close or downsize our [plant] network. And we will be in a position to discuss our forward-looking plans on that at our February 10 analyst meeting.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me ask Peter Brandt to address the fourth quarter Lipitor rebate question again.  

PETER BRANDT: As we mentioned before, the rebates for Lipitor in and of itself in that quarter were lower than what they had been in the fourth quarter of the previous year. I think that honestly it is too early to -- there are so many factors that go into these. You're dealing with over 100 different contracts, well over 100 different contracts, that to be able to say we have a trendable event or not off of that. And I think you're asking one very important component of it, what in essence the rebate structure going to be looking like for the 99 some odd plans that we will be contracting with on the Medicare side of the equation.  

We are still grappling with -- because not all the contracts are signed yet -- the marriage of all the current contracts, the move of the dual eligibles into Medicare from Medicaid, what impact that would have on an ultimate rebate structure, as as some of the accounts that we have been doing -- we have been negotiating with or battling with in terms of the appropriateness of some of their requests, and what ultimate impact that will have on rebates for 2006. That is something we hope, as Hank said, to have a better handle on by the time we meet in February.  

HANK MCKINNELL: One thing that is clear, and Peter mentioned 99 contracts -- or 100 contracts this year, 99 next year, it is quite clear that the rebates to the one will go to zero. That is helpful to us. The last question please.  

OPERATOR: John Boris with Bear Stearns.  

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Just on Lipitor. It has been a long time since the National Cholesterol Education Program revised the treatment guidelines. Can you just talk about how the T&T results and how potentially numerical results might influence a revision in the treatment guidelines downward? And how that helps you competitively against generic Zocor?  

A second question on Zithromax. Has a pediatric suspension been launched on Zithromax? And then third a philosophical question for you, Hank. When you do your scenario analysis on a growth rate for the industry I think consistently you have said that the number constantly comes out to be about 8%. With the Medicare prescription drug benefit on the horizon does that change your opinion at all about that industry growth rate going forward?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me take the last one first. My number is still 8%, interestingly enough. It is a different 8% than we had before quite clearly. But the size of this market says good things happen, bad things happen. There is a regression to the mean. The Medicare prescription drug benefit is certainly a positive for the industry, for patients and for the federal government, the payer. On the other hand, there are more and more branded products going off patent. There is going to be a point here at which that reverses as industry R&D productivity picks up, which I think it will. Certainly ours has already. And I expect this from others in the industry as well. But first let me have Joe Feczko discuss the guidelines on cholesterol.  

JOE FECZKO, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: There is no doubt that not only T&T, IDEAL but every study we have done with Lipitor has shown that as we drive the LDL lower we have an improvement in endpoints. And this is whether it is against placebo, against low-dose, or against some of the statins. We anticipate that this is being -- we believe this is probably being picked up by the practicing physician and by the people who look at the guidelines too. And this may be reflected on some of the comments we said earlier about the change in the mix, so that we are seeing more higher dose Lipitor being used. And I'm sure that is a reflection of the data that is becoming available. But there is no doubt that we are seeing whenever we do this that there is a continued improvement in outcome as we drive LDL lower. And that is much more readily achieved with Lipitor.  

JOHN BORIS: And competitively, how does that help you with generics in the statin?  

JOE FECZKO: Every eminent study that we have done looks for an endpoint of getting down to 60 or 80. And our endpoint study from T&T and IDEAL have driven the LDL down to that 60 to 80 range, and we have been able to do that. And that is beyond the guidelines that we currently have, which is 100. We have been able to do that much more consistently.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: And it is certainly far below what generic simvastatin can get to.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes, you can't get there with generic simvastatin is the point. And we see significant benefit getting that -- to that low level, which helps patients and it helps payers. I think we've got a good story here.  

Finally, on Zithromax generics, it is true we don't have competition on all dosage forms. Peter, could you briefly discuss where we do and don't have generic competition?  

PETER BRANDT: We do not have competition on generic azithromycin for the oral suspension or the intravenous formulations. We maintain the only presence in the market for those. Where on the oral solid form, the capsules and the tablets, are generically competitive.  

JOHN BORIS: Just remind me the mix, is it 65, 35?  

PETER BRANDT: Yes. That would be a good estimate. 65% [noral solid], 35% [alpha].  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you all. That concludes today's conference call. We appreciate your time, your support, and I hope to see you all on February 10. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Pfizer fourth quarter 2005 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060202e21j00105
  


 HD
 Q3  2005  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
15,243 words
   PD
20 October 2005
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
JIM GARDNER, VP, INVESTOR RELATIONS, PFIZER: (technical difficulty) this third-quarter conference call and webcast. I'm Jim Gardner, head of Pfizer's investor relations team.  

Before we begin, a few housekeeping notes, please. To avoid any interference with today's conference call, it would be appreciated if you could turn off cellphones, pagers, and Blackberries. And in the unlikely event of an emergency for those in the room today, please follow the lighted exit signs located at the doorways. These lead you to 42nd Street; these will take you to the lobby. In those circumstances, please follow the fire director's advice.  

   TD
Also before we begin, I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2004 annual report and Form 10-K, and in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.  

Also in this call, we will be discussing financial and other information, as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 2005. This report is available on our website at  www.Pfizer.com  in the For Investors/SEC Filings by Pfizer section.  

And now, Hank McKinnell.  

HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER: Thank you, Jim. Hello; welcome, everyone, and particularly those here on the webcast. When we announced our results this morning, I sent a letter -- an e-mail to all of our colleagues telling them that the reaction to our third-quarter performance report was likely to be decidedly mixed, quote-unquote.  

Mixed is actually a fair description of the quarter. We posted results of adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.51, ahead of your expectations and even ours. Human Health revenues were down 7% in the quarter, due entirely to lost revenues from patent expirations and lower COX-2 sales. Our adjusted Human Health revenues from products not affected by either COX-2 uncertainties or patent expirations were up 9% in the quarter.  

During the past quarter, we continued our wave of new product launches, with Zmax, Revatio, and Lyrica in the United States. We also completed the acquisition of Vicuron, which has two antiinfectives under U.S. regulatory review. We saw positive regulatory action on Macugen and Exubera in Europe, and dalbavancin, Exubera, and Sutent in the United States. And we completed the Phase III studies of varenicline for smoking cessation. And we continued to use our scientific and medical capabilities to add value to our in-line products, including Lipitor, which now has a supporting wall of science second to none.  

As Pfizer's leaders, we share your disappointment in some of the news we reported today. A quarter with revenue decline is never easy -- not for a Company with a lot of pride in performance. But beyond the quarterly numbers, we ask today that you look more deeply into the larger picture of a Pfizer in transition. We ask you to look at a Pfizer making substantial measurable progress in dealing with the greatest magnitude of major product expirations in the shortest time in the history of the industry.  

Our strategy isn't a secret. It's to do what we've always done -- first and foremost, to maximize the value of the products we market today and to discover and develop new products. We are also making Pfizer more effective and efficient, streamlining our Company and pressing the advantages of an industry-leading global scale. We are aggressively exploring new ways to add value through our knowledge of health, health-care, prevention, and wellness.  

In terms of the patent expirations we are now facing -- well, they're never a surprise. In fact, you know the date for certain 20 years in advance. We've been preparing for this period for more than a decade. And we are on track in executing our plans to deal with these losses of exclusivity.  

We understand your concerns in the short-term. But we're pleased by the positive developments driving our potential for long-term growth. Our path became a bit steeper in the past quarter, mostly because of lower-than-anticipated prescription growth in some of our key therapeutics markets. The unknown right now is whether this slowdown is temporary or longer lasting.  

That's one of the challenges we face, but that's what we do at Pfizer. We face and meet challenges. And meeting this particular challenge doesn't change our longer range strategy for dealing with this period of patent expiration. Our plans are anchored in long-standing strengths. These include a leading role in biomedical discovery and development, the best medical marketing organization in the industry, rock-solid financial resources and flexibility, unprecedented global reach, and a track record of creativity and reliability in partnerships.  

I know you have a lot of questions, and we're going to address them. I also know that you would like us to give you guidance today for next year and beyond. We will do that, but not today. My first rule of disclosure is that we will communicate after we know, which should be upon completion of our ongoing planning reviews.  

So with that, let's get to a few reports from my colleagues on the executive committee here with me, and then to your questions. First up is Pfizer Vice Chairman, David Shedlarz.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, VICE-CHAIRMAN, HEAD OF HR, PFIZER: Thank you, Hank, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll begin by reviewing our current financial performance and full-year 2005 outlook. And then I will discuss our efforts to leverage Pfizer's financial strength and achieve greater effectiveness, efficiency, and cost savings through our Adapting to Scale productivity initiative.  

For the third quarter of 2005, Pfizer revenues declined 5% to $12.2 billion compared to the third quarter of 2004. Cost of sales continues to remain under pressure this year due to lower production volumes and changes in our geographic, product, and segment mix, among other factors. Selling, informational, and administrative expenditures and R&D expenses taken together declined by 4% during the quarter, aided by the accelerated results of the Company's Adapting to Scale efforts and reduced operating expense.  

And as a result of the change in the product and geographic mix of our income, we now forecast an effective tax rate on adjusted income of 22.3% versus the previous expectation of 23% for the full year. Our third-quarter results reflect the year-to-date impact of this reduction in the effective tax rate.  

For the full year, we continue to project a modest decline in revenues compared to 2004, although a somewhat larger decline than previously anticipated, reflecting lower U.S. Human Health revenues. This reflects the impact of the loss of exclusivity on key products, publicity and regulatory actions regarding selective COX-2 inhibitors, and reduced market share growth in the U.S. lipid-lowering and erectile dysfunction markets.  

We now forecast 2005 R&D expenditures of about $7.6 billion. And at current exchange rates, we are now forecasting 2005 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.92 to $1.94. Reported diluted earnings per share in 2005 of $1.02 to $1.04 is now anticipated compared to a previous estimate of $1.24. This change is due in large part to in-process R&D charges related to the Vicuron acquisition, as well as our reduced 2005 adjusted income outlook.  

The forecast ranges for adjusted and reported diluted earnings per share reflect the impact of a number of factors and uncertainties. These include, for example, changes in prescription growth rates in key therapeutic markets and geographies; our Adapting to Scale restructuring activities; the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of new product launches; changes in geographic, product, and segment mix of both our revenues and income; changes in foreign exchange; the timing of regulatory action; and other factors.  

We are currently assessing these factors and other major variables as part of our normal annual planning process, and are now withdrawing our prior financial guidance for 2006 and 2007. We will provide new forward-looking guidance after the completion of this year's process early next year. As such, let me reinforce Hank's previous comment that as a result, we will be unable to respond today in the Q&A session to any questions concerning 2006 and 2007 financial expectations.  

Pfizer is actively employing its strong, positive cash flow in the long-term interest of our shareholders. The Company is both investing aggressively in promising new business and product opportunities and returning cash to shareholders through growing dividends. Our Company has paid an increasing dividend every year for 38 years. The current quarterly dividend of $0.19 per share continues the Company's commitment to return value to its shareholders. By year-end, we will have repatriated nearly $37 billion in foreign earnings, thereby enhancing our great balance sheet strength.  

Pfizer has purchased nearly 126 million shares of common stock, valued at $3.4 billion during 2005. During the third quarter, purchases of common stock were reduced due to the competing uses of cash, including the Vicuron acquisition. We remain committed to completing our currently authorized $5 billion share purchase program.  

Pfizer continues to leverage its scale and strength to maximize the value of current products; discover, develop, and deliver new products; and explore new ways to create value. Our Adapting to Scale productivity initiative seeks to unburden and streamline the organization, while at the same time generating $4 billion in estimated annual cost savings by 2008 and enhancing our ability to fund key investments.  

Adapting to Scale spans all functions, processes, and geographies. Beyond the initial cost savings, it is intended to have a (technical difficulty) impact by instilling fundamental change and how we do business plus strengthening our culture of continuous improvement. And the initiative is proceeding very well. I am especially proud of my Pfizer colleagues and the great initiative and courage they have exhibited in aggressively pursuing this difficult, but important, activity.  

We are ahead of our target for 2005 cost savings, and now expect more than $600 million of savings this year. Action plans are in place, and we have moved aggressively into the implementation phase. Most organizational decisions from this initiative have already been made, or will be announced during the next few months.  

With this rapid implementation plan, Pfizer can then focus on growing its business. Savings will be realized in procurement, operating expenses, facilities, among other sources. We expect the cost of implementing this initiative through 2008 to be approximately 4 to $5 billion. As a transforming process, Adapting to Scale will bring significant changes. And we are committed to making those changes in keeping with Pfizer's values.  

Now, it's my pleasure to introduce Karen Katen.  

KAREN KATEN, VICE-CHAIRMAN, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER AND PRESIDENT OF PFIZER HUMAN HEALTH, PFIZER: Thank you, David. Hello, everybody. I am here to discuss the recent performance of our Human Health operation. Last year, I told you that the market is tough, but we're tougher. Since then, the market has gotten tougher still, but let me assure you -- so have we. I urge you to look beyond the headline number -- and I know that everyone focuses on that one number -- to consider the events and complex activities that go beyond the surface. And those are undertaken by thousands of colleagues around the world to address the present, and more importantly to all of us, the future of our organization.  

As we have been saying for sometime now, the reality is losses of exclusivity and the COX-2 situation have had a significant impact on revenues. These two factors alone account for a total worldwide revenue loss of roughly $4.4 billion year to date compared to the first nine months of last year.  

There's no way around those facts. But there is a way beyond them. Beyond the headline is the fact that we have offset 90%, or roughly $4 billion of that decline, through strong organic growth in our core portfolio. We achieved these third record results while asking our colleagues to maintain performance, despite the loss of exclusivity and the COX-2 situation and simultaneously retooling Pfizer for our future. We have identified and implemented profound changes which we have called the Adapting to Scale initiative.  

Adapting to Scale means virtually every aspect of our business is undergoing significant evolution. As David mentioned, we are ahead of our AtS targets in the overall corporation and in Human Health, where the bulk of the changes are actually occurring. Along with David, I am proud of what our colleagues have accomplished in research and development, in manufacturing, and the pharmaceutical business as announced in our release.  

Considering the amazing efforts these Adapting to Scale activities demand, we are especially pleased that our portfolio has shown strength under tough conditions during this past quarter. Excluding the LOE and the COX-2 factors, Human Health worldwide reported revenues grew 15% worldwide and 16% in the U.S. through the first three quarters of 2005 compared to the same period in '04. Under these same conditions, third-quarter reported revenues grew 9% worldwide and 7% in the United States.  

A host of our top products showed strong worldwide growth year-to-date. Lipitor is still the world's top-selling prescription medicine by far, and is ahead 16%. It's also a medicine that leads in a category that is demonstrably improving human health. Current epidemiology data show that levels of LDL cholesterol have fallen 4.5% in the U.S. over the past decade due to statins, due to healthier diets, and other things -- but mostly, I think, led by statins.  

Use of statins have tripled among all adults, and quadrupled among men over 60. At the same time, the death rate due to cardiovascular causes has fallen sharply. We believe that Lipitor has been the major driver behind this change.  

Other Pfizer medicines have shown strength as well. Norvasc is ahead 8% -- another $1 billion quarter. Norvasc is ahead 38%. Zyrtec is ahead 10%. Xalatan is ahead 16%. Detrol is ahead 14%; Camptosar, up 85%; Vfend, up 40%. And Caduet is ahead 249%. The medicines we launched more recently are now ramping up and growing as well -- Aromasin, ahead 88%; Zyvox, ahead 38%; Relpax, ahead 49%; Geodon, ahead 33%.  

We're working to extend this performance by advancing a number of new opportunities to drive growth. In September, we launched Lyrica in the U.S., Canada, and Italy. It's already been one of the most successful launches ever in Europe. Lyrica is the first new medicine in recent years for epilepsy and two of the most common forms of neuropathic pain. And in its first two weeks in the U.S., it was the most frequently detailed product among high-writing primary care physicians.  

Its strength rests, as with all of our products, on strong clinical data. Anecdotal results from the field confirm that data, and indicate that Lyrica can significantly reduce pain as early as day one in its regimen. Other studies show it to be among the best in class of treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy. Initial U.S. market data suggests a strong uptake for this powerful new medicine, with more than 50,000 new prescriptions since it was introduced, as I mentioned, in early September.  

Macugen continues to perform well since we launched it in the U.S. in January and in Canada just last month. Macugen, as you know, helps slow the vision loss that patients experience with neovascular acute macular degeneration.  

Zithromax remains the number-one prescribed oral antibiotic in the U.S., although I must remind you that the patent for Zithro in the U.S. expires in November of this year. We have a new one-dose preparation called Zmax, which has surpassed all other recent antibiotic launches in prescription volume. So it's already doing well. Zmax should and will dramatically improve compliance, and as a result, reduce resistance rate. And in addition to that, of course -- all those are true, we continue to support our in-line portfolio with new clinical insight. And we believe this is fundamental to the success of the past Pfizer and the future Pfizer.  

Lipitor continues to go where other medicines cannot. The FDA recently approved Lipitor for reduction in the risk of stroke and MI in patients with type 2 diabetes. This approval was based on findings from the CARDS study, a landmark trial, as most of you know, of more than 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes that had near normal cholesterol and at least one other risk factor, such as high blood pressure or smoking. The CARDS study showed that patients using Lipitor experienced 48% fewer strokes than those on placebo.  

Although these data -- and many times as you know, the data -- we lag the data in terms of our ability to talk about it with doctors -- these data were available -- the CARDS data were available a year ago. Only now with the FDA label change have our reps been able to discuss it with physicians.  

These and other findings mean that Lipitor will command a strong presence at the annual American Heart Association meeting next month. We have more than 15 abstracts accepted for presentation on Lipitor alone.  

The FDA has also approved indications for other Pfizer medicines, including Norvasc, which was labeled to reduce the risk of hospitalization from angina and to reduce the risk of coronary revascularization for patients with coronary artery disease -- those who don't have heart failure -- based on data from the landmark CAMELOT study. We'll use this new Lipitor and Norvasc data to further reinforce and demonstrate the clinical value of Caduet. Caduet represents a treatment paradigm shift that brings the benefits of the world's leading therapies for high cholesterol and high blood pressure to patients in a single medicine -- single copay also.  

As for Celebrex, our U.S. field force optimization allowed us to begin its resurgence in September, immediately after we received the long-awaited relabeling from the FDA. We're now rebuilding the U.S. COX-2 arthritis and pain market doctor by doctor and patient by patient, assisted by the recent FDA approval of a new Celebrex indication, ankylosing spondylitis. Ank spond (ph), as it noted by clinicians, is a painful and hard-to-treat form of spinal arthritis that affects more than 1 million people in the United States alone. The approval for Celebrex for this indication was at the 400-milligram dose, reaffirming both the efficacy and the safety of this important medical option for millions of patients.  

Now, just to talk for a minute about what's in store for our future, through our own development and through our aggressive acquisition strategy, we have developed one of the strongest pipelines in the industry. I'll mention just a few highlights.  

First, in oncology -- I hope that you all know by now that we are emerging as a major force in new cancer treatment. And Sutent, a novel, multitargeted oral compound, is a potentially groundbreaking treatment for certain types of hard-to-treat cancers like GI stromal cell tumors and metastatic renal cell carcinoma. The FDA has granted priority review status to the Sutent application. With the completion of Sutent's filing, we are now 80% of the way toward our goal of filing 20 NDA's in the five-year period ending in 2006.  

Diabetics and their doctors will have a new, easily administered form of inhalable insulin with Exubera. This is being developed in partnership, as you know, with Santa Fe and Nektar Therapeutics. And this also has received the support of key advisory groups, both in the U.S. and overseas.  

The need is enormous. Over 11 million Americans are treated for type 2 diabetes, yet 58% are not at the American Diabetes Association goal of glycemic control, despite all the available treatment. Exubera is an important advance in diabetic treatment, because patients are three times more likely to accept insulin therapy when it's administered in an inhaled version than in an injection. Just this week, a study in the annals of internal medicines showed that adults with type 2 diabetes who take Exubera, either alone or with existing oral diabetes medication, showed significant improvement in blood sugar levels compared to patients taking oral diabetes medicines alone.  

We continue our history of success in the antiinfective arena with the acquisition of Vicuron Pharmaceuticals. We now have anidulafungin, an antifungal medicine of the echinocandin class, that is now under priority review for invasive candidiasis by the FDA. Another medicine we acquired in the Vicuron acquisition is the antiinfective dalbavancin, a promising next-generation glycopeptide antibiotic for Gram-positive infection for which we have received an approvable letter.  

As you know, smoking is a contributing factor to many serious medical conditions. Our new treatment for smoking cessation, varenicline, should offer a powerful and unprecedented tool for millions who need to stop smoking. Its Phase III development program is now complete. The data is being prepared for global registration, and has been accepted for presentation during a latebreaking clinical trial session at the American Heart Association meeting next month.  

In partnership with Neurocrine, were also making strides in treating insomniac with indiplon. This new medicine recently cleared an important regulatory hurdle, when our NDAs for more immediate release and for modified release were both accepted. The immediate release formulation is now under active review.  

Finally, maraviroc, this novel CCR5 antagonist, prevents the HIV virus from entering, and thus infecting the white blood cells that spread the disease throughout the body. It truly is a breakthrough. In July, and again in September, the independent data safety monitoring board recommended that four Phase IIb/III clinical trials continue as currently designated. That's an important decision. Further good news is that this important clinical program has been granted fast-track designation by the FDA.  

The progress of all of these medicines from laboratory bench to patient bedside, as well as the continued opportunity for growth in our pacesetting in-line product portfolio -- and I assure you, we are absolutely focused on that -- highlights the strong platform from which we can help patients around the world live happier, healthier, and more productive lives. And I think it's a tribute to our Company. Now, I'd like to hand this over to Jeffrey Kindler.  

JEFF KINDLER, VICE-CHAIRMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER: Thank you, Karen. Good afternoon, everybody. I would like to comment briefly on recent developments on the legal, policy, and legislative fronts.  

First, we are obviously very pleased with last week's court decision in the United Kingdom on the challenge to our Lipitor patent. We prevailed in our position that the basic UK patent is valid and would be infringed by Ranbaxy's generic product. That basic patent provides longer exclusivity than the enantiomer patent, which the court held invalid. So the result means the Lipitor's exclusivity will be protected in the UK through November 2011, assuming this result is upheld on appeal. We have ongoing generic challenges to our Lipitor patents in Canada, and a number of countries in Europe, and we were vigorously contest those challenges in those countries as well.  

Now, with respect to the U.S. case, as you know, it's been fully briefed and argued, and is awaiting a decision by the District Court in Delaware. I have no information when the Court might rule. A decision is certainly possible by the end of the year, but that's entirely up to the Court, and the judge has not given us any indication as to when he will issue his judgment. Whatever the outcome in the U.S., there will undoubtedly be an appeal, which we expect would take at least a year.  

Now, there's been some speculation regarding what, if any bearing the UK decision has on the U.S. case. UK and U.S. law differ in a number of areas, and the U.S. judge will obviously make his decision based on U.S. law and will not be governed by the UK decision.  

Now, having said that, our UK victory on the basic patent is encouraging, because the key issue as to whether or not the basic racimade (ph) patent covers different enantiomers is very similar in the UK and the U.S. We were therefore very pleased that the UK court sustained our position that the basic patent disclosing the racimade does indeed cover Lipitor, one of the racimade's enantiomer forms.  

With respect to the enantiomer patent, the UK decision turned on the application of certain UK legal principles -- obvious to try, irrelevance of post-filing data, and others -- that have no counterpart in U.S. law. On the other hand, Ranbaxy has made a claim in the U.S. that it could not make in the UK, that the enantiomer patent was obtained by inequitable conducts. We believe we have a very strong defense to that claim.  

Moreover, with respect to all of Ranbaxy's claims that the enantiomer patent is invalid or unenforceable, whether due to obviousness or inequitable conduct, Ranbaxy's burden of proof is subject to a higher standard in the United States as compared to the United Kingdom. In the U.S., unlike the UK, a duly issued patent is presumed valid, and the burden of proving obviousness or inequitable conduct, and therefore, invalidity or unenforceability, is squarely on Ranbaxy. And Ranbaxy must prove these things by clear and convincing evidence, a very high standard of proof, in order to prevail.  

Now turning to the legislative and policy front, we are seeing substantial progress toward successful implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit. The plan is fulfilling its objective of encouraging market competition. In every region of the country, multiple plans are available to Medicare beneficiaries who had the opportunity to select the best plan for them.  

CMS recently noted that average monthly premiums for drug coverage are lower than expected, and that some plans may not even have a deductible. The competition we are seeing among plans means the beneficiaries will be paying lower costs -- $32 for the average monthly premium compared to earlier estimates of $37. So the fact that patients are going to have ample and affordable choices among plans indicates that the Medicare prescription drug benefit has passed several important milestones.  

The next step, of course, is enrollment. On this front, there is a broad-based effort underway to provide older Americans and people with disabilities information on how they can enroll in the plan of their choice beginning on November 15th. While it's too early for us to tell exactly what the business impact of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit will be, we expect that Medicare beneficiaries will have broad access to medicines when this historic expansion of Medicare takes effect in January.  

On another subject -- importation. There is increasing awareness of the safety issues created by crossborder movement of pharmaceuticals and the growing threat posed by counterfeit medicines. In fact, a report issued just last month determined that counterfeits are growing at twice the rate of sales of legitimate pharmaceutical products, the total revenues from counterfeit medicines expected to reach $75 billion by the year 2010.  

Law-enforcement agencies are working to tackle the increasingly sophisticated activities of counterfeiters with several recent successes of note. For example, just last month, 11 Chinese citizens and one American were charged in a counterfeiting scheme that spanned 11 countries and involved millions of dollars worth of fake drugs including Viagra and Lipitor. Pfizer is working closely with law-enforcement agencies around the world to address this important problem. As attention increasingly turns to the need for measures to safeguard our medicine supply here in the United States, we believe that efforts to legalize importation in medicines to the U.S. maybe starting to lose momentum. Clearly, the counterfeiting and safety issues presented by crossborder movement of pharmaceutical laws are too serious a problem to ignore or to deny. And more importantly, between the new Medicare drug benefit and pharmaceutical assistance programs such as the partnership for prescription assistance and Pfizer Helpful Answers, safe and affordable medicines are available for all uninsured Americans without risking importation from abroad.  

Finally, on regulatory matters, Pfizer is providing patients and physicians with additional information on our clinical trials. We've posted results for more than 300 clinical studies, involving 35 medicines as well as enrollment information for 265 ongoing studies. Pfizer will continue to post data from the Company's late-stage clinical trials for marketed medicines.  

We also believe that it is important to continue to further public understanding of the benefits and risks inherent in all medicines. We believe that the process leading up to the Prescriptions Drug User Fee Act reauthorization, PDUFA, in 2007 is the most likely form for Congress to take a thoughtful approach to these important issues, and we are supporting efforts in that regard.  

Thank you. And now, I'll turn it back over to Hank.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, David, Karen, and Jeff. Before I get to your questions, let me just clarify two numbers that Karen gave you. For the year to date, Norvasc is ahead 8%. Zithromax is ahead 38%. All of the other numbers were correct. Now for your questions.  

DAVE RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Merrill Lynch. A couple of questions. First, in terms of the guidance for 2005, I think it implies that the fourth-quarter EPS will be down $0.09 sequentially from $0.51 in the third quarter that you just reported. That's despite the fact that seasonally, revenues are typically stronger in the fourth quarter. So what are the key drivers of the EPS declining so much sequentially?  

Second, can you talk about the timing for torcetrapib results to be disclosed, and whether there will be any secondary endpoint data to give us a sense for morbitidy and mortality trends?  

HANK MCKINNELL: On the question of the fourth quarter, the one thing I suggest you focus on -- well, two things actually, in doing your own analysis of the fourth quarter, is first of all, the third quarter included $0.02 from the tax adjustment catch-up which won't repeat in the fourth. In the fourth, and I think Alan, this is correct -- actually had six days less than the same fourth quarter last year because of the way the monthly closings fell in our accounting cycle. We've been talking about this for quite some time, but I still see in your forecast that you still haven't quite got the seasonalization right. So I think those two factors probably account for 90% of it. Do they, Alan?  

ALAN LEVIN, CFO, PFIZER: The additional -- the fewer days in the fourth quarter -- there are six fewer days in the fourth quarter, which account for about a 6% reduction in revenues which is comparable to the 5% incremental revenues that we had in the first quarter that we discussed when we released earnings for the first quarter in April. So it's a seasonalizaton consideration.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I'm told, however, there will still be 365 days in the year. John, could you comment on the torcetrapib timing?  

JOHN LAMATTINA, SVP, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER AND PRESIDENT OF PFIZER GLOBAL R&D, PFIZER: The torcetrapib program continues to go as we outlined each quarter. Basically, the Phase III program is well underway. We'll have when the program completes over 25,000 patients in the study. We anticipate the imaging studies -- IVUS studies, for example, will come down about a year from now, so we will know when comparing the combination to Lipitor itself. So we will have a good sense of the results there. And the mobility/mortality studies are trailing behind that by at least a couple of years.  

In anticipation of the question we always get, no, we have no further insights as to whether or not the FDA would approve a torcetrapib/atorvastatin combination on the IVUS and imaging data alone. And obviously, it will depend on the outcome of those studies and how profound those results are. And not as determined -- we think they're profound, but that's if the FDA determines that they're profound.  

JIM KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Goldman Sachs. Coming at David's question a slightly different way, if we think about what the fourth-quarter expectations were before today's reports, they've moved down given the change in guidance and the amount that this quarter beat by $0.08, or even if I take out the tax, by $0.06. And I'm interested in what changed so profoundly going from our understanding yesterday to today if the only revenue disappointments were due to COX-2s and generics versus what we knew in the second quarter of '05.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, it wasn't a change yesterday to today. It was a change during the third quarter which we then reanalyzed at the end of the third quarter. It was the slowing in the prescriptions growth of the overall pharmaceutical market, and in our case, specifically, the lipid-lowering market where the growth rate fell by half from the first half of the year -- 14 to 17, I think it was -- and in the erectile dysfunction market, which actually declined in the third quarter. So it's that slowdown in the third quarter overall market demand that concerned us.  

Now, the key question is whether that's a temporary effect or a longer-term effect. And we are looking at that very closely, as you might imagine. And we -- with a couple more months' data, I think were going to get a pretty good insight to that.  

I would remind you in doing your analysis that the second half last year, specifically in the lipid-lowering market, was exceptionally strong. There were some unusual factors, such as the CARDS data being announced, President Clinton having had a heart attack for probably discontinuing his statin therapy. There was competitive product launches. There was a lot of activity last year. And that led to a very rapid growth of the market in the second half. And now we are suffering a little bit from a tough comparison this year versus last year.  

The fourth-quarter estimates is below our expectations. But if you factor out the six fewer days and the effect of the tax rate, which doesn't repeat, it's not by as much as it appears on first analysis. But in totaling that apart yourself, take a hard look at the market growth in the third quarter.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Hank, can I just expand on that one point in terms of seasonalization? Not to confuse the full year, but I think it's important to distinguish consensus estimate for the full year between the third and the fourth quarter relative to the internal forecast that we had. I'm going to reinforce a point that Hank made. So when you are looking at the $0.08 dislocation vis-a-vis Street expectations, the Street never quite got right the seasonalization between the third and the fourth quarter, underappreciating the number of days that we're reducing in the fourth quarter.  

So the dislocation, at least relative to our internal forecast, is less than that $0.08. Saying it another way, we had higher expectations for the third quarter than the Street had, and lower expectations for the fourth quarter. And that's an important factor, because you're looking at consensus which was fine at the time for the full year, but not between the third and the fourth quarter.  

HANK MCKINNELL: If you look at the full year, you'll be fine. (technical difficulty) I'll go to the back in a second here. And at some point, I should go to those on the webcast, but David first, and then I'll --  

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Lehman. (technical difficulty) if I may. One really relates to if there was some salesforce optimization in the third quarter -- that is a realignment. The question is whether the 9% total cholesterol growth was really driven by the fairly anemic Lipitor growth, because as you've been able to show some fairly robust growth, the whole market would have grown. So if in fact that's true, was it because of the share of voice (ph) was in fact down? And if that's true, is that going to rebound, or is this another sort of managed care of a (ph) pushback?  

Now let me just move to the second question, if I may, and it really relates to -- and I'm respectful of the '06, '07 guidance, but one other point, David, I think that you had mentioned in April was around the gross margins with respect to the patent expiry period. And so the question is are you also rescinding that sort of flattish gross margin comment you made at that time as well?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, on the second question, on '06, '07, we'd prefer to answer all of those questions when we have all of the answers, which will be after we complete our review.  

Lipitor in the third quarter most definitely was affected by the restructuring of our salesforce. We lost a large number of days by reassignment of sales territories and retraining -- a number of our sales reps had to be retrained. And I suspect you're right. That was part of the reason the market growth slowed down -- certainly the reason Lipitor slowed down, and we're a big part of the market.  

As to the recovery, let me ask Pat Kelly to comment on what our plans and expectations are here.  

PAT KELLY, PRESIDENT - U.S. BUSINESS, PFIZER: So as Hank has indicated, that is certainly a factor in what occurred in the third quarter. But it's important to note that we completed all of the activities that are necessary to put our field force into action for the fourth quarter and going forward.  

As they go forward, they are focused on a lot of very important, and we think, beneficial trends for Lipitor. One is, as has already been mentioned by Karen, is that we have significant new data about the impact that Lipitor can have on cardiovascular risk now in the label, which means that the representatives who are now going out there into their territories to detail the product can carry that message forward. And that message is all around how there are new data that demonstrate that there are new patients populations that have heretofore not been thought of around Lipitor -- i.e. diabetics -- that might get a significant reduction in their overall cardiovascular risk. CARDS data showed that that risk reduction could be upwards of almost 50% in terms of stroke in the diabetic patients. So that will be an important key message now in the Lipitor label, now being carried forward by this re-energized field force.  

The second thing is that we have new consumer ad campaigns coming out in the fourth quarter which will be oriented both towards promoting the cardiovascular risk reduction benefit of Lipitor, as well as unbranded campaigns that are oriented towards generating market growth. There's still a significant number of patients that have elevated cholesterol that have not yet sought treatment, so we will be making significant advertising pushes to drive patients into the doctor's office.  

The third thing is to note that we continue to carry with Lipitor best in class formulary access. There is no other patent in the market that enjoys the formulary access the Lipitor does. That will be carried forward very importantly into Medicare. As Medicare comes on-line in January, we'll continue to be able to have accessed to greater patients that any other statin by virtue of our best-in-class formulary status. All of those factors give up us a great deal of optimism that we will be able to regenerate Lipitor growth as well as lipid-lowering market growth.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Just to hammer that point home, we don't really believe there is any long-term systemic problem in the lipid-lowering market, such as managed care, in the third quarter. We do expect that market to recover, and we expect to gain share for two reasons. One is we've consistently gained share against the older agents, because we lower LDL better. We don't have that advantage against the few newer agents.  

But we really need to communicate that this is not only about LDL lowering. It's about risk lowering. And there, Lipitor is unique. So we're not ready yet to pull all of that together into a forecast. But if we see that belief start to roll out in the 10th, 11th, 12th periods here, then we'll be much more optimistic about Lipitor's future.  

Shall I go to the -- I'll get right back to you, and then I'll take one from the listening audience.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Prudential Securities.  

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: A couple of questions. You talked about really a broader market slowdown beyond just cholesterol in terms of script trends. And I'm wondering if you can just rank order what you think might be driving the dropping demand between variables like restructuring of sales forces for managed care or maybe things like pushback by consumers or physicians.  

And then the second question relates to your cash and your repatriated earnings. I'm wondering how much of that repatriated funds are actually in relatively liquid vehicles or short-term investments that are readily accessible? And when I look at that, as I understand it, you can't do share buybacks. You can't do dividends. It seems like you're not growing the infrastructure through your restructuring program. So it seems to me like corporate acquisition is kind of the one logical choice here. So I'm wondering what sort of things are you considering -- big pharma acquisitions, small company acquisitions, everything in between or what exactly?  

HANK MCKINNELL: First, correct a misunderstanding embedded within your questions. We did repatriate funds to the United States, and we immediately paid down debt. So it's not really sitting in liquid assets. We do have the ability to leverage our balance sheet, obviously. So that turns out to be the same thing.  

But there are no constraints on our ability to pay dividends. And we certainly are intending to complete the $5 billion repurchase of shares. And we do have very strong cash flow. So what we do with the cash flow is the key issue, and all options are open. It's repurchasing shares. It's paying dividends. It's acquisitions.  

We don't feel in any way the only option here is some big acquisition. In fact, I don't think that's necessary. We do see lots of opportunities, such as Vicuron and a few others before that, which are exactly in our sweet spot. They're organizations that bring both research capability and products in the short-term, and we do that better than anybody.  

So in terms of financial flexibility, I think all options are open. What we intend to do, I think, depends on opportunities as they come along. But any acquisition that somehow crowded out our ability to repurchase shares would, by definition, be better than repurchasing shares. And I suspect we'll be doing a little bit of all of the above.  

On your overall market slowdown issue, I again don't think there's any systemic issue here. Our belief is we will see a recovery in the fourth quarter. But before we start putting plans in place for next year, we do want to see what occurs over the next month or two. Pat, can you add to that at all?  

PAT KELLY: I just would add one thing, which is to remind everyone of the fundamentals of the U.S. marketplace at this point -- is that while the overall prescriptions pharmaceutical market continues to grow modestly at this point year to date, all of that growth is in the generic sector. The branded sector of the pharmaceutical market overall in the U.S. is down this year. If you take a look at Pfizer, in particular, and focus only on our brands, you will see that our brands are growing in context of a market for brands that is declining. So we are continuing to bring whatever growth is available. But in general, we need to restart branded growth as much as we need to restart market growth overall.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Exactly.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morgan Stanley. If we can go back to the Lipitor question, I'm wondering if you could respond to Express Scripts' recent decision -- why actions like that would not spread throughout other HMOs and PBMs?  

And the second question relates -- I'm still puzzled by the Lipitor performance this quarter, given 4% script growth, and your reported revenues were 1%. And if I look back at the first and the second quarter, it was sort of the reverse. Revenue growth was very strong, up in the 20% range; script growth up around 9%. And there were reasons for that. But I'm wondering if you could walk through what's going on, why we're seeing this sharp slowdown? And I'm wondering if you could comment too on the value per prescription. It seems like that's what might be changing here.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, I will ask Peter Brandt, once we've addressed the Express Scripts issue, to once again deal with this issue. But frankly, we're willing to do it. It's just not terribly helpful, because the answer always is the comparison of this year versus last year, the fact that IMS (ph) scripts are not on the same accounting cycle as we are, and the fact that we do this with three months of sales data and two months -- sorry, three months of script data -- the wholesaler inventory numbers lag. We are always within 1% of our target inventory numbers.  

So sure, the month-to-month -- because of what happened last year, you will see sometimes stronger sales growth and script growth. But at the end of every month, we are within 1% on our target inventories, which probably are the lowest in the industry and have been for a decade.  

So there is not a dislocation in this. If you want us to spend your time going through the reconciliation every meeting, we're happy to do that. But I think you'll find that there's a very rational reason. And if you'd like us to lay that out for you, we will do that. Pat, on Express Scripts -- number one, nobody else has. So it's not a question of if they will. They haven't. But Pat, specifically on Express Scripts?  

PAT KELLY: That has been publicly disclosed by Express Scripts. They've made a decision to reveal the fact that we were unable to come to contract terms with Express Scripts. And as a result, what they announced was that they would no longer be providing Lipitor on their preferred formulary.  

We can't really speak any further than what Express Scripts has disclosed about that. I would point you to the fact that they have their third-quarter earnings report on October 27th. And if you wish to ask them this question as to why this occurred, you will probably get an answer that is more forthcoming than I can give you.  

In general, what I would say though is that since they have announced that, we have been approached by many of Express Scripts' major customers -- i.e., the health plans, local and regional, that Express Scripts supplies to -- with a willingness to talk to us about contracting directly with them, because they are still intent upon making sure that their patients still receive the best care possible. And that best care in this case includes Lipitor. At the same time, many other Pfizer products remain on the Express Scripts formulary. So we will continue to work with anyone who wants to ensure access to our first-in-class products.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And remember that the competitive nature of the Medicare prescription drug benefit clearly helps us. There are 12 plans in Maine alone, for example. And if you are one of those plans that does not have Lipitor available to Medicare beneficiaries, you're not going to be competitive. So I think there's a factor here where competition and the need to have a competitive plan and competitive benefits really helps us. So whether we do that directly or through Express Scripts -- either way is fine with us.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible question - microphone inaccessible).  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes, sorry. Peter?  

PETER BRANDT, SVP, PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS FINANCE, LATIN AMERICA, PLANNING AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND PFIZER HEALTH SOLUTIONS, PFIZER: Sure. The best way we think to look at this is on the year-to-date basis, because as we've said before, certainly quarter to quarter, there are dislocations that as we now look at it for Lipitor in the U.S., when we look through nine months, many of the dislocations begin to go away. Total Rx's -- not new Rx's -- if I can start there, total Rx's grew 7% on a year-to-date basis for the first nine months in the U.S. for Lipitor. Obviously, that compares to a 16% net sales growth.  

So what fills in the gap? There are three areas that we look at when we try to explain that internally. The first one has to do with price. So on the price side, you've obviously got the price increases, but you've also got any changes in the rebate structure or the rebate amounts that happen on the product in a given quarter. So that combined adds 2% to the TRx growth on a year-to-date basis for Lipitor. So total price impact including rebates of 2%.  

The next thing we take a look at is taking a look at the mix, if you will, of the package sizes or, in some cases, the units per prescriptions that are going out. And on a year-to-date basis, that has also added 4 percentage growth points to the Lipitor Rx number.  

And then finally, it's that same issue that both David and Hank have talked about before which is the number of days that we have seen year to date this year versus last year, which are up -- primarily because of the first quarter, but it carries through on a year-to-date basis. And that adds 2% to the number as well.  

So we get to a number that is quite close, if you will, to the total net sales growth of 16%. When you add the 7, the 2, the 4, and the 2, you get to about 15.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible question - microphone inaccessible). How has the price component changed (inaudible question - microphone inaccessible)?  

PETER BRANDT: I think in the third quarter, we did see a higher level of rebating in the U.S. on Lipitor. So that has, indeed, gone the other way.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. Let's go to the phones, and then we'll come back to the room.  

OPERATOR: Carl Seiden, UBS.  

CARL SEIDEN, ANALYST, UBS: Hank, I fully understand how you describe the inability to talk about guidance going forward. But on the guidance issue, maybe more theoretically, the Company multiple times in the past has said that although they rarely get the guidance exactly how they thought they would, they always make the guidance. And obviously, at least for 2005, that's now changed.  

I also understand the inability to give guidance in '06 and '07 given all of the uncertainties. But this has been a pretty uncertain market, and you gave that guidance initially last April.  

So as a result, I have three questions. One is how would you suggest investors reconcile those things I just mentioned? Second, can you comment on your cost-cutting flexibility beyond the $4 billion that you've already talked about? And third, is there any evidence in the immediate term that the cost-cutting you have done is part of the immediate term shortfall? Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me just remind you what the process here is. We do forecasts at certain periods of the year. We told you earlier this year when we completed our '04 planning cycle that our expectation was growth of double digits in '06 and more aggressive double digits in '07.  

Lots of things have changed. You're right. And we're now going into that planning period once again. And when it's complete, we will be able to provide the guidance for the next period. So it's not unexpected that we would be in a period here where we're not able to confirm what we said a year ago because -- not quite a year ago; eight months, I guess -- -- what we said some time ago, because we haven't completed that analysis which we had completed last time. Beyond that, I think we really are going to wait until we have answers to all of your questions. And did I miss part of that, David? (multiple speakers) No? Thank you.  

Let's take one more from the satellite.  

OPERATOR: Al Rauch, A.G. Edwards.  

AL RAUCH, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: I didn't here any updates on your atypical antipsychotic. Is that still going to be filed at the end of this year?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Asenapine? (multiple speakers) John Lamattina?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Now, as normal, we don't comment on plannings for our compounds. Having said that, I would say that the asenapine Phase III program continues to go well, and we haven't found any glitches or anything like that in there. So it proceeds well. But again, we don't comment on filing data.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And what the CATIE studied tells us is good news for Geodon. It also tells us there's a great medical need in this area. So we're looking forward to a new product in this field.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN, ANALYST, CIBC: CIBC. First, a somewhat theoretical question, and that is that it would certainly appear that the market over the last few years has changed at a much faster rate than individual companies or the industry as a whole has been able to respond to that. And so, while you certainly say that patent expirations are known issues and you've been planning for that, there's obviously lots of things that have occurred over the past few years that make it difficult to change operating plans or to implement that. Do you believe at the juncture that we are at now that perhaps the marketplace has become stable enough so that operating plans can be changed and implemented?  

And then just a question for David on the charges expected over the next years -- how much of that is cash?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, I've only been in the business 35 years, but I've never experienced a period of stability. So I suspect that will continue to change. And when you're in a business of high-risk, high-reward product development, it's just kind of natural that the market continues to change, and the structure of the market -- the distribution side of the market continues to change.  

The best example of what you are getting to, the biggest change we will see next year, is the Medicare prescription drug benefit. It will affect more than half of this market, I guess it would be fair to say. And there, we're ahead of the curve, I really believe. And Pat, do you want to comment a little bit on how we prepared for that -- the implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit, and why we think we're going to have a major competitive advantage next year through the restructuring of our sales force?  

PAT KELLY: So what we've done is to redeploy and reorganize our field force to match on a fairly consistent basis the regions that CMS has defined as the Medicare drug benefit regions, so that all of our representatives that will be working with doctors in that area as well as the plans that themselves are administering this drug benefit will be working in the same geography. So we think that's an important point for us going forward.  

The other thing that we have done was mentioned by Jeff is that we have worked very hard, and perhaps -- I would say perhaps harder than any other company to work with CMS to make sure that all of the potential enrollees of the Medicare drug benefit get all of the information they need in order to make the most informed choice possible. In fact, we have information that we have put out into the marketplace that is now in -- over half of the U.S. pharmacies are carrying brochures about the Medicare drug benefit that we put together and put forward. So I think the combination of realigning our field force structure to help support doctors in the areas of the Medicare drug plans as well as our support for the drug plan in general puts us in a competitively sound position.  

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Credit Suisse. First of all, David, could you clarify where the 600 million of realized savings is coming from in 2005? And I was wondering, John, if you could speak to maraviroc in regards to the four studies that are advancing, and if there were other studies that did not advance, and why?  

And then the last question is for Hank. Obviously, investors looking at your stock have to look at two scenarios -- your comfort with growth going forward as well as the downside scenario. And I think the clear question that I have heard is -- in a downside scenario, how would you manage the Company differently, and how could you employ cash differently? If you could give a couple of examples of that, I think that would be helpful.  

HANK MCKINNELL: John, do you want to deal with the first while thinking about the others?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: About the maraviroc program, we've got four different studies ongoing -- two in treatment-naive, two in treatment-experienced. And you've obviously followed what's happened to competitor compounds, like GlaxoSmithKline. When we had our normally scheduled data safety monitoring board visit in July and that went as planned -- or went well and the phase (ph) continued, it was after that that the GSK results broke. And they came in again unexpectedly in late September to review programs -- all four, I believe, with a specific eye on looking at liver function abnormalities -- and obviously, we're blind to the results, but they basically reviewed that and gave us the go ahead to continue all four studies. All of those are proceeding. We thought we were about a month or two ahead of the Glaxo program to begin with. So we've got even longer exposure so far in the program, and no sign of any untoward effects. So it's proceeding -- keep our fingers crossed -- proceeding very well.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Good news for us and good news for millions of patients around the world. David, on the reconciliation?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: I think two answers. One, I think, Mara, you asked about the 4 to $5 billion and how much of that would likely be cash. The vast majority of it will be cash. In terms of the $600 million which has been realized to date, it's pretty prototypical of what's going to drive the $4 billion worth of cost savings. It's coming from lower operating expenditures, anywhere from travel and entertainment expenses to consulting expenses. It's coming from a dramatic reduction in procurement expenses, and especially as it relates to anywhere from raw materials straight through IT purchases. It's coming from dramatic rationalization of facilities, which is clearly moving quite rapidly in our manufacturing organization. And it is coming -- and this is the hard part of it -- it's coming from lower labor costs, as well. That's the tough stuff, for us. But we are reducing rather significantly the number of people in certain organizations.  

KAREN KATEN: I would just add that it's also coming from across the organization. We're touching every unit, every division, every location in order to identify these cost reductions and productivity improvements.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And there had been in number of plant closures already announced. And clearly, there's more to come. So I'd say it is from pretty (ph) across the organization. And when you look for $4 billion, you have to go pretty deep.  

In terms of -- I think you put it "downside option" -- we are executing, and I think executing exceptionally well against a very clear strategy. The problem all of you have is the patent expirations are for certain. They are sitting right there. Everything else we are doing in terms of maximizing the value of our in-lines and introducing the new products are uncertain. So you are looking at the certainty of patent expirations and the uncertainty of what our strategy is, which is growing the in-lines and launching new products, and also, as you've heard a couple of times, making the organization more efficient and effective in taking $4 billion out of expenses.  

I think that's still the right strategy. So it's not as if we have a kind of downside scenario here. We are executing, and I think -- as far as I'm concerned, executing exceptionally well against the right strategy, admittedly in a difficult time. Let me take one or two from those on the webcast, and then I'll come back here.  

OPERATOR: John Schaetzl, GE Asset Management.  

JOHN SCHAETZL, ANALYST, GE ASSET MANAGEMENT: I think Jami in many ways asked my question. I just wanted to make sure that I understood the answer appropriately. When you reconcile sales rates to script rates on a year to date basis, is it possible that this is kind of an anomalous quarter, and that those ebbs and flows kind of made the first two quarters look better for Lipitor, and those same ebbs and flows reversing now make the third quarter look orders for Lipitor? Because what I'm really trying to get it is a way of looking at Lipitor's growth rate going forward. And I'm pretty sure it's not as bad as it was, at least in revenue, this quarter. But I don't know where it falls in there.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, well, let me ask Peter to try again. But look at TRX, not new prescriptions. And net sales, of course, is more than just prescriptions. It's the value of those prescriptions.  

PETER BRANDT: I think the quick answer to your question is yes. On a year-to-date basis, we think things are fairly well in sync at this point in time, but that does mean that some of the factors that were more positive as we mentioned before, even the overall pricing impact in the first half of this year, went a little bit the other direction in the third quarter. And again, I'm sorry we're all sounding like a broken record -- we will remind you of those number of days still to hit us in the fourth quarter, which will be a final reconciling item for the year to date through the full year relative to what you've seen in the first three quarters.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I know you been burned by other companies on loading. We don't do that. So we are happy to do these reconciliations. But this is not -- at least two companies I could name. Okay, back in the room?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hank, I'm wondering if you could reconfirm the statement you made last quarter at this meeting, that the 4 billion in cost reduction that you expect through '08 is a net cost reduction off of an '04 base? And if that's true, in light of the sum -- I think it was $1 billion in net cost reduction, your net cost increase year to date on the '04 base, it makes the '06 through '08 period more like a 5 billion-plus type of cost reduction program. Is that the way we should be looking at this?  

HANK MCKINNELL: You should think of it as we have described it, which is a 4 billion reduction from the base. But then thing going forward, we will manage our business based on sales, expectations, and opportunities for investment. And I don't know what that's going to be. But a fair assumption is we will grow expenses more or less in lines with sales. We been doing that for 30 years, I guess. But that also may change.  

But it is not that 4 suddenly becomes 5. It's 4 off the base. And sure, that will grow over time. The 600 million this year is not 600 million next year. It's probably more like 1 billion. So it will accumulate over time. But it is off the base of this year. And we're reconciling that very carefully. There's a whole program office that's doing that reconciliations for reporting purposes.  

NINA PARELL, ANALYST, LORD ABBETT: Nina Parell (ph), Lord Abbett. The relatively surprising move of pulling '06 and '07 guidance that that you basically just gave us has created a crisis of confidence among investors. So my question is if you all are confident in your Company, why haven't you announced a fairly substantial and more aggressive share repurchase?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, we have announced a very aggressive share repurchase, and we're busy executing it.  

As to a crisis of confidence, this is a normal part of a planning cycle. We completed our planning cycle last year, announced our expectations for '05, '06, and '07, which is kind of unprecedented. We are now entering into that planning cycle again. And we will tell you what our expectations are when we've completed the cycle.  

There should not be a crisis of confidence here. You should have as much confidence in us last week as you do this week. There are some uncertainties here, for sure. But that will roll itself out over the next few months.  

Let's take one from the listening audience.  

OPERATOR: George Grofik, Citigroup.  

GEORGE GROFIK, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking my questions. In your guidance, you state the Adapting to Scale initiative will yield $200 million in incremental cost saves relative to your previous expectations. However, the R&D budget is being cut by 400 million, implying potential cuts beyond identifying streamlining opportunities. Can you just give us a sense for where the reduced R&D spend is coming from?  

HANK MCKINNELL: John Lamattina, head of research?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Yes, as you know, we are the amalgamation now of a number of different companies. And I will give you one example, which you can then translate along the whole R&D organization. Many years ago, we simply had Research Labs in England and in the United States here in Groton, Connecticut. And basically, they were self-sustained units. Then we added Warner-Lambert in Michigan; that was a self-sustaining unit. And the same thing was true with the former Agouron, and then later on the Pharmacia acquisition.  

Each one of these places had a full cast of resources that they need to do their job. We sat down with the challenge of trying to find the necessary cuts, because as Karen and Hank have said, this came across the board. We began to realize that we didn't need to do every single thing at each site. We didn't need to have three pilot plans for our organization, when one operating more fully would do. We didn't need to have high throughput screening at every single site if we could centralize this and have this in a number of locations. We didn't need to have imaging centers at each site, which is a pretty expensive cost to run each one of these things.  

So this was the power of one (ph) of the scale that we were able to bring to these things. We we're able to began to start centralizing a lot of these activities, and as a result, need less equipment and unfortunately, fewer people to be able to execute against all of this. So I said at the last meeting, we had when we began to do this, we found the capacity for a tremendous amount of savings.  

Now let me add one other thing. In this quarter and this year, will be running somewhat behind what we expected in our budget. But interestingly, that also includes our ability to have invested $50 million more in our clinical programs around maraviroc, torcetrapib, and Exubera. So not only have we taken costs out, but we have been able to redirect some of those costs to keep programs. I think it's a great way of using our R&D budget more effectively in meeting the goals of the Corporation.  

HANK MCKINNELL: David, anything to add? No? Okay, back to the audience.  

OPERATOR: Brian Hinsker (ph), JPMorgan.  

BRIAN HINSKER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I guess given your stock performance over the last five years, why wouldn't you be more aggressive in settling the Lipitor patent and not putting the risk to shareholders if they could take one more big hit on those significant value disruptions (ph)? I understand that you are confident in winning the patent court case, but is the risk of losing worth the risk of taking the case all the way through the final end here? Why it's just settled with Teva on their Effexor patent? And I just -- I'm wondering why you're taking the risk of this court case (ph) decision.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, clearly, our judgment is it is worth the risk of losing to take this all of the way to the end. We believe that, obviously, very strongly.  

But there's a principle here too. This is not the way medical science should advance. The patent system is designed to protect and encourage medical innovators, not punish them. So we think -- both on the facts of the case and on the fundamental principles here, we think this is worth the risk of a possible loss. Jeff, do you want to add to that in any way? (multiple speakers) Okay.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: JPMorgan. Two questions, one, on the -- I'm not sure you answered completely before. Do you think any of the Adapting to Scale initiatives which previously you had outlined, including with the realignment of the sales force, maybe reducing the number of salespeople, and detailing individual physicians -- it appears that has been implemented. Is that having an impact in terms of topline performance?  

And then secondly, on the Lipitor patent, I know you can't guess when the decision will come. Can you provide us any reassurance in terms of how the decision will be delivered once the decision is available? Will it be done with a prior announcement? Will there be a time outside of market trading hours, etc.? That's been the case with some of the other major announcements, where at least the uncertainty has been mollified somewhat with some parameter around and when and how that decision will be announced.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, I think the answer is we don't know. But Jeff, do you --  

JEFF KINDLER: We don't know. Every judge does this differently. And the judge in our case has not given us any indication of when he's going to rule or whether he's going to do what the judge in the UK did, which was announce in advance when he's going to rule. So we just don't know.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: An answer to the first question is that we certainly did take a deceleration of our activities relative to bringing the field force back in to retrain them and retarget them and then redeploy them back out there. But I don't think that that has -- or will have any sustained impact on the ability to generate sales, or more importantly, the ability to generate call activity in front of the physician.  

The example I would give to you of that is that the first product that we have launched under this new configuration is Lyrica. And for the last two weeks, which are the first two weeks of Lyrica's launch, it is the most detailed product in the industry to the high-writing primary care doctor. So think we will be more than able to deliver what we need to in order to secure the topline growth we're after.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And a number of us who are here were at that launch, which is both the launch of Lyrica and the research in Celebrex. And I can assure you, there's no problem with enthusiasm in our salesforce. They are ready to go. In fact, they're already out the gate in the new configuration. Yes.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Just a very minor clarification. You talked about the planning process taking place at this point in the year, so that's why guidance was withdrawn. Should we expect guidance to be withdrawn at this time of the year every year because of the planning process? Or is something truly different?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, those statements are correct. There will be a cycle to this, when we know and when we don't know. And you're not going to know before we know. So the natural cycle --  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (multiple speakers) was guidance withdrawn because of the planning process period, end of sentence, or because of greater uncertainty in this particular planning process?  

HANK MCKINNELL: No, listen to my statement -- the cycle comment is correct. There's periods when we know and there's periods when we don't know, and you'll know when we know. But it's certainly true there's been some major uncertainties introduced this year, both positive and negative. And until we've done that analysis and made a judgment of -- okay, how does this look next year, we're not going to come out with any half answers to possible questions. But we'll be back -- probably in January, I suspect; we complete this in December -- with our new comments on what we think next year will be.  

But it will be a summation of a lot of things. It will be an answer to the question -- was the third-quarter slowdown short-term or long-term? We will know by them. If we take a ruler and put on these two weeks of Lyrica, we'll own the world. That's probably not going to happen. But there's a lot of things going on here, including new product approvals and introductions next year. So there's -- I don't know -- a list of 50 things here that we're going to have to make some judgments on. And it will be the net of that that we announce.  

So both statements are correct. There is a cycle. We do planning the same way every year. And there's also a lot of -- I wouldn't call them uncertainties; just things that we need to reach judgments on. And we haven't reached it with all of these. But I would just emphasize that the uncertainties we're dealing with are positive and negative. It's not just all bad news. If you understood that, I'll try again.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I just want an update on two programs -- first, Oporia, following the nonapprovable letter -- kind of what the next step we should be looking for there? And second, on Exubera, just the timing in terms of when we should expect some decisions on the snowpea JP (ph) buyout.  

HANK MCKINNELL: John or Joe? Dr. Joe Feczko, our Chief Medical Officer.  

JOE FECZKO, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, PFIZER: Timing on Exubera? Yes. We got the positive opinion this past month in EU from the CHMP, so that's been -- basically, their approval and we're waiting then for the administrative sign off on that, which usually takes a couple of months, probably about three months -- usually in their centralized process.  

In the U.S., we have the FDA advisory panel which, again, gave very positive go-ahead in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes as far as safety and efficacy. Right now, it's under review. And it's progressing along well. We don't have a -- clearly, a time just right now. We have to remember it's an inhaled product, and inhaled products in the U.S. are -- just go through extra review processes by different divisions. And if you look back on any inhaled product, it's not just handled by the reviewing division that handles that aspect. So in this case, it's metabolic plus the device division. And in case of asthma drugs and things, it's respiratory plus the device division. So there's always an extra step in that process that we're working through right now.  

We have a quicker approval always in Europe, because they don't have that second step. So as I said, right now, it's progressing well. We had positive feedback from the advisory committee meeting, and we don't anticipate any problems.  

Oporia -- I think Oporia and Dynastat both got caught up I think in a -- this tighter, risk-averse environment that we're dealing with at the FDA. We do have meetings planned with the FDA coming up to review their nonapproval for Oporia. We're going to work through that with them. We do have a lot more data coming up over the next year or so from long-term fracture studies that have been ongoing. So we will be discussing that with them. So we haven't had that meeting yet.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess more of housekeeping question, but Bextra recorded another quarter of really big negative sales. I guess I thought that process might have ended in the second quarter. So can you just clarify that? And is there any residual negative sales to occur in the fourth quarter in that product?  

HANK MCKINNELL: I think that's is. Are we done, Peter?  

PETER CORR, SVP - SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, PFIZER: Yes, that should be about it.  

OPERATOR: David Moskowitz, Friedman Billings Ramsey.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN BILLINGS RAMSEY: Yes, thanks for taking my question. I'm hearing a lot about executing and reconciling data with sales -- pluses and minuses next year, and certainly six fewer days in the fourth quarter, which was known already and now has become the reason for the downturn in fourth quarter expectations.  

I think investors and analysts deserve a real explanation, an upfront explanation on what has really happens to make you pull the guidance. Something dramatic has obviously happened. You didn't just lower; you removed it. Can you at least give us a range or some explanation?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, let me correct a misstatement. The six extra days was in our forecast. I'm not sure it was in yours. So that's a very important point. The six -- I said extra. I meant fewer. The six fewer days in the fourth quarter has always been in our forecast. And as David explained, we had more in the third and less in the fourth than at least the consensus. I'm sure a number of you were in different places.  

What changed in the fourth was the third. The third clearly came in below our expectations in terms of underlying script growth. And that will translate, possibly -- we could see a resurgence in that script growth. But the overall market was slower in the third quarter than it was in the fourth. Whether that's a short-term effect or a long-term effect we're going to see here. But clearly we've lost the incremental revenue we expected in the third. And there's probably 10 other things that have changed as well. But it was a roll-up of the forecast which got us not to $1.98, but $1.92, 94 based on performance in the fourth quarter. David, anything to add to that? From the listening audience?  

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, SG Cowen.  

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Previously, Pfizer had indicated that it believed Celebrex would return to growth at the end of 2005. To my knowledge, that view was not reiterated in today's release. Is that something you could comment on now?  

And perhaps we need a clarification of statements made in April. Were you referring to quarter-over-quarter growth or year-over-year growth when you said that it would return to growth? And then secondly, are there any legal efforts underway to prevent a generic Zithromax launch next month?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, let me have Pat address the misunderstanding, obviously, that exists with respect to Lipitor. We do expect to return (multiple speakers) -- sorry, Celebrex. We do expect to return to growth. Pat, could you provide a little color there?  

PAT KELLY: So I guess the quick way to say this is that we did and do expect to return to growth with Celebrex. It's important to note that we just in September received the final label for the product after we had waited for -- basically for three quarters to get that final label. And so now is when our folks can get out into the field and begin reselling the product to our potential customers. So that, in effect, is a two-quarter delay in the resurgence or the return to growth of Celebrex. And I think it would be much more appropriate, given the overall hit that the COX-2s took to be looking at this on a quarter-by-quarter basis as opposed to on a year-by-year basis.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Jeff, any reasons to expect a delay in generic Zithromax?  

JEFF KINDLER: No.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. Simple. Back to the listening audience, and then we'll take a final one or two here.  

OPERATOR: Scott Henry, Oppenheimer.  

SCOTT HENRY, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: With regards to the IDL data, specifically the Zocor versus Lipitor head-to-head, when can we expect presentation of that data, if there is any certainty on that issue?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Dr. Joe Feczko?  

JOE FECZKO: Yes, there's going to be a presentation at the AHA meeting in November.  

HANK MCKINNELL: So, soon.  

HANK MCKINNELL: A couple of final question from here?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a theoretical question for you, Hank.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Can I give you a theoretical answer?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: If you look at the Company's pipeline -- products that have been filed, products that have been apparently moved from Phase II to Phase III, products that have been filed with the FDA -- there have been an uncanny number of setbacks, whether approvable letters, nonapprovables, products terminated. And in comparing -- obviously, the market is more -- the regulatory environment is more tough with the FDA. But if I look at your level of R&D spending relative to the output compared to other global companies in the industry, Pfizer has a major issue with R&D productivity. That has not turned around.  

And I'm just wondering if you could comment on what you think is going on. Is this a structural issue? Is size an impediment to improving productivity? Or are these just a lot of -- products that have been dealt with a lot of bad luck? I'm just wondering if you can kind of explain to us what is going on.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, I don't think bad luck is ever a good reason. Having lucky research directors are always good. Having confident ones is obviously better.  

I'm not in any way disappointed with research productivity. It certainly is a more difficult regulatory environment. Joe has mentioned already Dynastat and Oporia. Two years ago, they would not have received nonapprovable letters. Now both of them, we think, meet clear medical needs, and will eventually be approved. How long it takes to do that is at the moment unknown until we've had the discussions with the FDA. But they may look like disappointments. But it was a pretty aggressive regulatory strategy on certainly Oporia. And in this environment, it's going to come later rather than sooner.  

Overall productivity -- we're going to be filing for 20 new products in five years. I know of no other company that's done that. Our scale helps. Spending more money helps. But as John Lamattina will tell you in a minute, I really believe, and we believe, that scale is the biggest advantage we have. And it does allow us to be much more efficient in what I call the industrial side of this -- John mentioned more efficient screening, for example; that is an industrial process -- while at the same time, keeping the creativity and the risk-taking at the 240 or so development teams that we have. John?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Thanks for asking the question, Jamie. You know, when you -- if I ask anybody in this audience how long it takes to go through the whole process, you all know -- it's 10 to 12 years. If you look back at the amount we're investing, as all of the companies that now make up Pfizer, it's actually relatively small compared to we're doing now.  

So the first point is I think we're going to be in a golden age of the end of this decade and the beginning of next decade -- not just Pfizer, but perhaps the whole industry -- with the amount of money that's being invested in R&D. I think that's when you'll start seeing the payoff. That's point one.  

Point two is on scale, there are tremendous hurdles being set, as Hank and Joe have already spoken to today, about -- be it by regulators, be it by payors and the like. One of the great things about our scale is we are able to do some things I think that competitors are going to have difficulties doing. So when you look at all of the studies we've done in Lipitor -- you've heard about CARDS. You heard about TNT; IDL is coming up, et cetera. We spent now -- we must be closing into about $800 million on those trials. That's going to be important and continuing to differentiate Lipitor from other things.  

When you look the torcetrapib Lipitor program that we have ongoing, the Phase III program is about $800 million -- again, proving scientific concept and the like, that's going to be, again, difficult for others to do. If you look at what we've promised to do in terms of follow-up on Exubera, one of the requirements we're going to have in the new world going forward is we'll have a 15-year follow-up on patients for Exubera looking for potential detrimental effects in the lung and lung cancer (ph). That's the kind of funds you're going to need in R&D to be successful in the future. And I think size it's what's going to be necessary. And I would predict there will be further consolidation in the industry in order to be able to do these kinds of things and going forward.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And if you're in a high-risk business, diversification helps you. You talk about bad luck in research -- the CCR5 group of compounds that are now being developed clearly are the most innovative new generation of medicines for those with HIV and AIDS. And ours is in full development and doing fine, and Glaxo is in the process of losing theirs. So there is an example of where Pfizer research actually brought home a whole new generation of HIV medicines which others have not been successful in doing.  

So with that, we will thank you for being here. I do think the real answer to this question is three years from now, you will looking back saying, those guys really had it right. Thank you.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020051103e1ak001p9
  


 HD
 Q2  2005  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
15,087 words
   PD
20 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before we begin, there are a few general announcements that I need to make. First, as a courtesy to other attendees, please turn off and silence cellphones, pagers and BlackBerries. Thank you.  

Second, in the unlikely event of an emergency, please listen to our announcements and follow the lighted exit signs above each doorway. Security personnel will be in place to direct you to the closest emergency exit.  

   TD
And third, during the Q&A period, should you ask a question from the floor, please wait for a microphone to be brought to you and then identify yourself, please.  

And finally, I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.  

The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.  

Also, in this call, we'll be discussing financial and other information, as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K dated July 20, 2005. That report is available on our website at  www.Pfizer.com  in the for investors, SEC filings by Pfizer section.  

And now, Hank McKinnell.  

HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Jim, and welcome, everyone, to this conference call. We've decided to do this a little differently, as you can see. But this is still a conference call. There are some 250, 300 on the call in addition to those of you who braved the high temperatures in New York City to come here today.  

One of the things we are doing is not using slides, making this very informal, something I'm actually trying to encourage throughout the organization. What we plan to do is each of us comment briefly on the quarter and then open it up to your questions.  

I guess my impression of the quarter is best captured by an awful memorable line from a television series many years ago in the 1970s, I think -- the A-Team -- memorable only because the lead character every episode, usually as they were blowing things up, said, I love it when a plan comes together. Well, we too love it when a plan comes together, particularly one we've been working on for more than a decade.  

My Pfizer colleagues will remember the cliff -- the period right now that we referred to as the cliff because many of the products launched in the early '90s were going off patent. We are in the second quarter of that period now, and fortunately, it doesn't feel like much of a cliff. It feels like more a transition to a better place. And that will take us a few years because of the timing of the patent expirations. But I think what this quarter shows is that we manage the business quarter to quarter, but we also manage it generation to generation. And as the 12th Chairman in Pfizer's 156-year history, I feel that very acutely.  

But first of all, on the quarter, we did achieve revenue growth this quarter, which was no small feat. This time last year, Diflucan, Neurontin and Accupril were all exclusive Pfizer products that are now subject to generic competition. That is $4 billion in revenue we lost this year. We did withdraw Bextra, another $1.3 billion, and we are in the process of rebuilding Celebrex after the news last year.  

So, without all of that, the other products actually grew by something like 20%, which is something Karen is going to talk about very briefly here. Our consumer business was up 12%. Our animal health business was up 19%. And in spite of the adverse effect of exchange, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, earnings are on track to achieve our estimate of $1.98 in adjusted earnings this year, with double-digit earnings growth next. So, all of that is no small feat through this period.  

We also brought back 36, $37 billion, I guess it is, in cash and have launched a $5 billion share repurchase program. And that's all in one quarter.  

The generation-to-generation part of this is our investment in the future, which is really our research investment every year. And this quarter was kind of spectacular -- three product approvals -- Revatio, Zmax and Lyrica, the filing of Indiplon and important milestones for Sutent and Exubera. So, that's quite a list, and we also managed to begin the process of acquiring Vicuron with two promising anti-infectives also under review at the FDA. So Karen and John will be talking about that a little later.  

I would also add that I'm particularly pleased by the progress in our early- and mid-stage pipeline. Even though we don't talk about those candidates coming forward very often, that is looking certainly better than I have ever seen it in my 35-year career. David and Karen will talk a little bit about Adapting to Scale, which I actually prefer to think of as winning through scale. It is designed to make Pfizer an even more formidable competitor, all the way from discovery to development to medical marketing to our industry-leading sales forces, but along with strengthening the organization, unburdening the organization, we are going to add some $4 billion to income.  

I know when we first announced that program, you were disappointed in the absence of details. We had some detail. We just hadn't fully developed the plans and hadn't communicated those adequately within the organization. We are now actually a day before the rollout of many of those plans, and we are pleased to share with you today some of the important details, both as to timing and to where the savings come from.  

We will give you as many numbers as we can, but I am going to insist that colleagues and affected groups learn first about our plans before we announce them publicly. So, we'll do the best we can to give you straight answers to any of your questions, but please understand that some of this we're going to have to be a little careful about because I do want the colleagues to know before the public does, and I will be fairly blunt about that where we can't answer a question.  

Next, to the external environment, Jeff will discuss a number of very positive developments, from importation to the implementation of Medicare modernization to litigation reform and the new FDA Commissioner. That's all very good news, something I probably couldn't have said a year ago. So that's a significant change in the environment.  

Finally, I've been so appalled by the quality of the debate around health care in the United States and elsewhere that I've written a book, A Call to Action -- Taking Back Healthcare for Future Generations, and it really starts with the definition of the problem. We think we have a problem in health care cost. I think we actually have a problem with the cost of disease. So, if we work to redefine our system of sick care to a true system of health care, I think we will all be much better off, both financially and in terms of impact on the individual.  

So I do believe the solution is greater health, not more health care cost, and we've taken the first step in that direction within Pfizer by launching this quarter also a program we call Healthy Directions, which is really designed to engage our colleagues in their own health, which I think will produce significant reductions in cost, improvements in outcomes, and increased productivity. So, just as we did with Florida, as we are about to do with the Medicare program with the Green Ribbon Health Initiative, which I'm sure you've read about, we are now trying to create a model here within Pfizer that other employers can use to deal with both the cost and the quality of the health care for their own employees.  

So, with that, that's my impression of the quarter. I'll turn it over to David and Karen and Jeff, and I suggest you all speak from the seats rather than try to bounce up and down to this podium.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER INC.: Well, thank you, Hank, and let me cover for a few moments the performance in the quarter, an update on the forecasts for both 2005, 2006 and 2007, and then Karen and I will share a discussion of the Adapting to Scale initiative, which is a broad-based, top-to-bottom review of the operations of the Company in the interest of not only efficiency but greater productivity for the Company as well.  

As Hank noted, the second quarter was a solid quarter, consistent with our expectations. Probably the most frequently asked question I get from a financial point of view, so I will try and cover it here and then be glad to answer further questions on it, is cost of sales, my favorite P&L line item. Clearly that grew at a dramatically higher pace than revenues during the course of the quarter, in fact, for the first half of the year. And that was primarily due to an unfavorable change in both business, product and geographical mix, lower production volumes attendant to the loss of exclusivity on a number of product lines in the United States, as well as unfavorable foreign exchange. They were all significant factors in terms of driving cost of sales at a faster pace then revenues.  

However, as you note, the expenses of the overall Company were quite restrained and in part is due to the initial benefits of the Adapting to Scale initiative and the attendant cost savings, which we will talk a little bit more about in a few moments. And for that reason, the bottom line in terms of adjusted diluted earnings per share came in at $0.46.  

We spend a few moments looking forward. Recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to many international currencies has had a negative impact, not only in the quarter but also the prospects going forward. Despite that, we continue to expect to have a strong year, consistent with bottom-line expectations. The reason for the modest decline in terms of revenues is relative to our prior forecast and is solely attributable to the change in the prospects for currency relative to the prior time we spoke to you about this.  

And despite the unfavorable change in terms of exchange rates, we're continuing to target adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.98 for the current year.  

On a reported basis, as you see from the press release, there's a lot of things happening, and in fact, we've increased that number quite significantly due to the favorable resolution of certain tax provisions, the lower cost of repatriating the $37 billion during the course of the year that Hank spoke to, and as we've refined the Adapting to Scale initiatives, we've also had to refine the cost of achieving those cost savings, and in fact they have come down.  

As it relates to 2006 and 2007, despite the unfavorable change in foreign exchange, we expect to generate adjusted diluted earnings per share at double-digit rates for 2006 and accelerated double-digit rates for 2007.  

Let me talk a moment about the financial strength of the Company, both from a tactical and strategical perspective. Let me remind you that we enjoy, in some respects, unprecedented positive cash flow from ongoing operations. Plus the financial position of the company is going to be further strengthened by the repatriation of overseas earnings of approximately $37 billion by the end of this year.  

These funds are being utilized in part to invest at an accelerating pace in new product potential and intellectual property. I would be glad to expand upon that in terms of the Q&A session later today.  

In addition, we're returning cash to shareholders at an accelerating pace, given the growth in dividends and also the recent announcement of a new $5 million share repurchase program.  

With that, let me spend a few moments on the Adapting to Scale initiative and highlight the fact that this clearly will lead to some significant cost savings, but also opportunities to improve upon the productivity of the organization. This initiative is being co-led by Karen and myself. We made significant progress during the second quarter of this year. In fact, we completed the top-to-bottom review of all major operations of the Company.  

One of the things I would like to focus on and to highlight is not only the confirmation of a $4 billion worth of cost savings, but also the fact that we expect to achieve that fairly quickly, with a commitment of $2 billion of those cost savings emerging in 2006 and $3.5 billion by 2007.  

Given your request, we try to provide greater granularity in terms of where these cost savings are coming from. Procurement is expected to generate about $1.3 billion worth of cost savings. That's off a base of about $16 billion worth of goods and services that we acquire on an ongoing basis, operating expenses of an equivalent amount and facility costs of $3 billion. So a rich array of opportunities being pursued, anywhere from supplier rationalization to demand management, strategic purchasing from lower-cost operations to consulting expenses to external services to the rationalization of our manufacturing and other sites.  

This is about as broad-based as you can get and it's meant to improve upon both the efficiency as well as the effectiveness of the organization.  

And with those few comments, now let me turn things over to Karen, who will be talking to you more about Adapting to Scale from an operational point of view, as well as our Human Health business.  

HANK MCKINNELL: David, before we do that, could you give us the breakdown of procurement savings, operating expense and facilities expense again?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes. $1.3 billion in procurement, $1.3 billion in operating expenses -- that's non-compensation-related operating expenses, and $300 million worth of facility costs.  

KAREN KATEN, VICE CHAIRMAN & PRESIDENT - PFIZER HUMAN HEALTH, PFIZER INC.: That doesn't add up to $4 billion, but we will explain it. Thanks, David. Good afternoon, everyone. I'll touch on highlights about Human Health performance and this is very -- it's in much more detail, obviously, in the release, which I'm sure you've all read -- the trimmed-down release, we might add. The Human Health organization, as you may or may not recall, was formed to create a seamless cross-divisional operation and to integrate support functions across discovery, development, manufacture, distribution and commercialization of our pharmaceutical medicine.  

We're already realizing some organizational benefits, even though this has been in place for a fairly short period of time -- tearing down silos, speeding decisions; we've actually reduced management time in meetings by 20%, something which we can all appreciate. And the goal, of course, is to get innovative medicines to doctors and to patients more quickly and to improve our own operations internally.  

Adapting to Scale, as David mentioned is an investment, really, in effectiveness and in efficiency. It's not just a cost-cutting exercise. About 3 billion of the initial Company-wide $4 billion will come from Human Health, in actuality, with ongoing benefits from streamlining operations, line operations, consolidating enabling functions and support throughout the organization. I will give you a couple of examples and then John can talk about it some more, and we have our management colleagues here who can address specific questions later.  

In R&D, we're eliminating some of the complexity of our R&D operation. Obviously, it's still a global, huge organization. We're lowering the cost base of research and development activity. We're trying to reduce attrition. We're streamlining our R&D overall processes, the structure, the governance. We want to increase productivity, reduce attrition and focus resources on projects with a very high likelihood of success. And John can speak to this.  

But as you recall at the last meeting, we talked about the creation of a therapeutic alignment within R&D, which actually cascades down into the commercial operation now. So we want a system that will allow us to go from discovery through development to the marketplace to patent expiration with continuous oversight and reduced handoff time.  

In manufacturing, we're aligning facilities with current and future product supply needs and we expect that those will be substantial given our pipeline. We're consolidating sites to improve productivity, and we're also -- which will impact results in a reduction of facilities by 25%, included in the ATS.  

And we're realigning field organizations and marketing organizations around the world. In the U.S., as we talked to you last time, we're reorganizing our field organization in response to our customers' feedback about the time limits that they had to spend with representatives. And also we need to address a new customer base, the new -- created by the MMA rollout, and that is the regionalization of Medicare and the way it will be operationalized post-rollout in the fall.  

Having said that, I think that ATS is moving very nicely, as David said. We're very comfortable with the fact that we are -- we will achieve our objectives over the 3.5 year time-frame and that we will do it, although there is some angst and concern within the organization, we will do it with the full support of our colleagues.  

Going onto product performance and performance of Human Health, if you look at the product line, excluding the COX-2 selective inhibitors -- and we all know what's happened there -- and the products that have already experienced loss of exclusivity, Human Health revenues in first half of '05 were up 18% versus first half of '04.  

We lead the industry in 11 therapeutic areas. Nine of the top 10 products showed growth this quarter, as you saw in the release. And seven of those 10 showed double-digit growth. Lipitor, of course, is -- continues a very powerful performance of 21% with a second-quarter revenue of 2.9 billion. Norvasc had another billion-dollar quarter around the world -- was ahead 12%; Camptosar, 58%; Detrol, 22%; Xalatan, 17; Zyrtec, up 16%; Zithro, up 14%; Viagra, up unfortunately only 1; and Zoloft, despite patent expirations in some markets and difficulties on the regulatory side in the U.S., is again up 1%.  

We also have seen some of our newer products show continuous performance. Relpax is up 34% for the quarter. Geodon is up 32%. I'm going to interrupt this now because we've already been asked this morning by several people about the status -- the reconciliation of Rx and dollar volume for Lipitor. And I'm going to ask Peter Brandt to just get this out on the table so everybody doesn't have to ask the same question over and over. Peter, could you -- Peter is the head of finance for Human Health. He's also the head of planning, and also the head of Latin America and also the head of PHS. So, he has a few hats on.  

HANK MCKINNELL: We don't promote people anymore; we just give them more jobs.  

PETER BRANDT, SVP, PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS FINANCE, LATIN AMERICA, PLANNING AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND PFIZER HEALTH SOLUTIONS, PFIZER INC.: (inaudible -- microphone inaccessible) in the U.S. for Lipitor, by way of example. We also have the same issue with Norvasc. And the answers are quite similar. So, you're looking at prescription growth of 9% year-to-date for Lipitor in the U.S. compared to 24% revenue growth. And an obvious question is what's driving the gap or what fills the gap? And the first answer to that question is it is not inventory -- it is not an inventory issue at all.  

There are a number of components that fill the gap. One is the following -- and it's a bit arcane, if you will, but if you look at the number of billing and selling and accounting days in the first half of -- or year-to-date in 2005, there are three more days than we had in 2004, and you don't see that reflected in the scrips. Scrips are apples-to-apples. The sales days are a little bit of oranges to apples.  

So, we get a 3% growth beni (ph) on Lipitor because of those incremental billing and selling days, and that's something that will reverse itself in the fourth quarter of this year. So, obviously, at year-end, the number of days equal the number of days that we had last year.  

So you start with your 9% growth in prescriptions. You add to it the 3% growth. Then you get to our price and mix impact, if you will. And there are really a couple of things inherent in here. One is the impact on the absolute revenue of the incremental price increases we've taken on Lipitor to date and ones that a carry over from last year. That plus a mix issue that we've seen in the first half of this year -- in other words, our sales have given package strengths or dosage forms relative to other Lipitor package strengths and dosage forms relative to the same six-month period last year.  

So the price and mix impact combined gives us another 7% growth '05 versus '04 year-to-date. And that 7% is split roughly half between the impact of price increases and the impact of mix changes. And again, dosage strength and package size.  

The final component is also when you take a look at the number of units, or pills, if you will, per prescription. When we take a look at the first six months of 2005 that's up 2% for Lipitor relative to the first six months of 2004. So again, when you're looking up the growth of prescriptions versus revenue, now you've got a 2% increase, if you will, in the size of the prescription to add to the equation.  

So 9 plus 3 plus 7 plus 2 gets us to 21% compared to the 24% in revenue growth. So again, bottom-line conclusion for us -- it's not an inventory issue. When we look at where Lipitor is at the end of the second quarter in 2005, we have 2.2 weeks on hand in the wholesalers, which is for us a very normal, consistent level for a product like that.  

KAREN KATEN: And by the way, the same as it was in 2004 -- same inventory, 2.4 weeks. Everybody got that? Obviously missing from the list of performers this year vis-a-vis last year and after a declining performance in late '04 are the COX-2s. Obviously, Bextra has been the strongest in the market. But we do see that Celebrex's prescription market share is improving. In addition, we're seeing a growing body of clinical evidence to support the safety of Celebrex and regulatory affirmations around the world.  

The year-to-date revenue -- this is not quarter -- year-to-date revenue for Celebrex is more than $800 million. We've seen an affirmation of support from EMEA and Health Canada for the use of Celebrex with new -- of course, addition of new warnings and contraindications, which you would expect given all the regulatory hoopla around the world.  

We're discussing still with the FDA the new labeling for the United States. Obviously this is still -- this has delayed our ability to have full field force support for Celebrex in the marketplace. But we are very expectant and positive about our ability to turn the new labeling into an appropriate presentation of Celebrex to the health care decision makers to look at the complete benefit-risk information and to help patients get access to that data and that product. So in the end, we still believe that science will prevail, and in fact, I think we're seeing more and more evidence that in fact, it is.  

Looking at recent launches, obviously we are committed to launching new products and making them as successful as we possibly can and maximizing the value of our medicines for both patients and for shareholders. The highlights of the first half include Lyrica launch. Lyrica received FDA approval, as you know, for adjunctive therapy for adults with partial onset seizures -- epilepsy. And that expands on its approval for the two most common forms of neuropathic pain. So we will have -- so potentially we have 3 million patients in the U.S. who could benefit from this medicine.  

We expect to launch Lyrica in the U.S. as soon as the final DEA scheduling is received. We have not received it yet, although we expect it will be a 5 -- category 5. And it will build on the recent success we've experienced in virtually every other market where the product has been launched -- UK, Germany, Mexico -- spectacular launch experiences. I just was in Spain and they again have had an incredibly powerful launch of the product in that market. So, these are very, very good, sterling examples, and the U.S., I'm sure, will follow.  

The clinical program for Lyrica continues to produce compelling results -- very, very powerful results, including demonstrations that Lyrica reduces neuropathic pain as early as day one following the beginning of the medication.  

As you know, Zmax, our single-dose treatment for mild to moderate acute bacterial sinusitis and community-acquired pneumonia is being approved and we will launch it this summer. Its single-dose demonstration will be obviously the most simple and easily administered antibiotic in the marketplace, and it's administered in the doctor's office, so the compliance is virtually assured.  

Macugen has been launched now for three months. It ranked as the number one medicinal therapy for neovascular age-related macular degeneration, as we've measured by doctors' claim share, which seems to be the only real mechanism we have to make sure that doctors are using it and they are getting reimbursement. So, those -- that claim share refers to claims submitted by physicians for reimbursement for those products. And that's the metrics that's used for these in-office-administered medicines in general.  

Revatio is going to be available soon for pulmonary arterial hypertension. As you know, this is a small disease in terms of frequency, but deadly, high medical need, and a very, very important addition to physicians' armamentarium.  

Looking at clinical highlights for our products, we've had a very active six months -- many publications, great presence at some of the key meetings in medicine, including the ADA, ASCO and the American Psychiatric Association. We're also seeing completion and rollout of even more extensive clinical trials and probably the most in the industry. So, obviously, as you know -- well know, this is the platform for our future growth. The clinical database, which is broad and deep, is the platform for new growth for our medicines.  

With Exubera, we've seen three studies that showed very, very effective sustained glycemic control -- well-tolerated in patients for over two years in adults with Type II diabetes. A fourth study showed that three months of Exubera was very well-tolerated and as effective as an injectable short-acting insulin and in achieving tight glycemic control for type-1 diabetes. We have Type II data, extensive data -- we have less data in Type I, but we're moving forward with accumulation of clinical data support.  

Sutent, which I will ask John to talk about in a few minutes, as you know, is a very, very promising oncology product. It looks very, very powerful, very effective. It prolongs the time to tumor regression in patients with GI stromal cell tumors resistant to Gleevac from 6.3 months on Sutent versus 1.5 months when you're on the control. So, a dramatic improvement in life extension and reduced risk of death by approximately 50% versus placebo. This is a very, very impressive and powerful medicine. We've also seeing evidence it works in other cancers as well. And John, would you like to talk about it?  

JOHN LAMATTINA, PRESIDENT, PFIZER GLOBAL R&D, PFIZER INC.: Yes, we tend to get this question each one of these sessions, so I guess we'll deal with it right now -- is the Sutent program is a very high-profile program in our portfolio. I can tell you this team is working very, very hard to get this filed as soon as possible for the obvious benefit to cancer patients, and it is one of the top-priority compounds we have. And we haven't filed the NDA, but we're working pretty hard to do just that. And we're prosecuting not just this program, but other programs, like renal cell carcinoma, breast cancer and the like, because we think this compound has got a tremendous potential across the board. So still a high priority; nothing untoward has happened to this program. If anything, the news continues to get better and better and we're working pretty hard.  

KAREN KATEN: Clearly the oncology is an important part of the future of Pfizer.  

Looking at Lipitor, we continue to build the wall of clinical evidence for this incredible product continues to grow based on its efficacy and outstanding demonstration of clinical benefits. You've probably all heard about the Treating to New Targets study, which looked at the cardiovascular benefits of lowering LDL well below current guidelines. In fact, the guidelines are being driven down as a result of the work that we've done.  

Key to that was the subgroup analysis of TNT, which shows that patients with diabetes -- and this is a supplement to the CARDS data -- who have taken high doses -- 80 milligrams -- of Lipitor lowered HDL -- to lower their cholesterol experienced significant additional cardiovascular benefit. So it's another example of the effect in these high-risk patients -- diabetic patients have extraordinarily high risk of problems with cholesterol.  

An important result this past week was that the Australian government reviewed the data on clinical benefits. They've looked at the whole database that we submitted to them. As you may or may not know, they were making a decision relative to creating a reference price to generic Simvastatin. And they have concluded that Lipitor is more effective than Simvastatin at lowering cholesterol and recommend that it not be subject to a mandatory price reduction, which is going to apply to generic Simvastatin.  

In looking at the pipeline, and John will speak more to that in a few minutes, we believe fervently that we have the best pipeline in the industry, and oncology is a growing and important part of our business. We're still on track to reach the 20 filings by 2006. Sutent is obviously one of those. Indiplon is another. As you've heard, we have submitted for immediate release; that's been accepted. And action on the NDA for modified release is expected shortly.  

Obviously, Indiplon has a broad opportunity for use. It treats multiple aspects of insomnia and symptoms associated with it. At least 70 million Americans are candidates for -- have problems with mild or severe insomnia and could be candidates for Indiplon.  

Oporia -- we've been asked about this already this morning. That's lasofoxifene, as you know. The regulatory review is progressing for this product and we're looking at it for indications of osteoporosis prevention and vaginal atrophy, and that is moving along.  

Exubera, partnering with Sanofi and Nektar, as you all remember, it's our inhalable human insulin. This is actually the first breakthrough in insulin delivery since the invention or creation of an injectable insulin. So we have seen that -- there is huge market opportunities here, not just with insulin-dependent -- with those patients who are Type II who postpone putting themselves -- or their physicians postpone putting themselves on insulin -- it's because they don't want to take the needle. It's a very big market sector that -- where inhalable insulin in the form of Exubera would be a very, very promising candidates. So, there's a great opportunity from a market perspective there.  

Maraviroc is our Phase III development product for HIV. It's a CCR5 co-receptor antagonist, as you know, and it looks very, very strong so far. John, do you want to talk on that?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: I would say that again, that's another high-priority compound for us. We realize that there is a bit of a competition in the industry, not only with ourselves, but a couple of other companies that have CCR5 antagonists. We believe we're still in the lead with a superior agent, and we hope we will be the best team to win.  

KAREN KATEN: Everyone wants to always know about torcetrapib/atorvastatin. The only news in this quarter, besides the fact that it's moving along -- the clinical program is moving along quite nicely is that we're now in production at our $90 million plant expansion in Ireland. So that, obviously, I think gives credence to the fact that we do expect that this will happen. We're spending the money on manufacturing facilities in order to be sure that we are ready when the product is approved.  

And you've all heard about the proposed acquisition of Vicuron with the two promising anti-infectives that are currently in regulatory review already. So we picked up two very -- potentially very important candidates in anti-infectives with that potential acquisition. As you know, it has not been approved yet, so it's just a planned acquisition of this company.  

In terms of health focus, as we look beyond the discovery, development and distribution of our medicines, we also care about how people get access to our medicines at the price they can afford. So we have a variety of programs geared towards -- that are geared toward healthy focus, which is in keeping with our overall approach that Hank talked about and talks about it extensively in his book. But it's very, very important that we move from being a pharmaceutical company only into becoming a health player.  

So we have a lot of initiatives that are geared towards that, including Healthy Directions -- you heard about our own employee program; Know Your Health, which is a program geared toward helping people -- helping translate the arcane and difficult-to-understand doctor, physician and science language into user-friendly consumer-based language.  

We also have several partnerships in order to ensure that patients can get access to our medicines. We partner on Together Rx. We partner with Pharma and many other partners -- 60 partners at least in partnerships with prescription systems. As you know, we are one of the Medicare demonstration projects, and in partnership with Humana, called Green Ribbon Health for Medicare patients in Florida, and we hope that again will demonstrate the value of early prevention -- early intervention and in order to better treat these patients -- these Medicare patients who have much concomitant disease and often poor outcomes because they are not treated correctly. So we are very excited about the outcome of that demonstration project.  

And then we have global access programs everywhere for Trachoma, for Diflucan in South Africa, the IDI program in Uganda, which is a training program that allows us to help create a ripple effect -- a ripple of educators and doctors who can diagnose and treat AIDS/HIV on the continent of Africa. It's been very, very effective so far. Hank may want to talk to that later. And we also continue to roll out our Health Fellows program, whereby Pfizer employees can go to the far reaches of the world and actually help on the ground in countries where health status is poor and they need more help and more guidance and consulting and on-the-ground work to get better access to medicines and better outcome for their disease.  

So, that program is ongoing. We have 50 people out there. They come back; they are very invigorated. They see the benefit that derives from what we do for living. And that is a full range of activities. And now I'm going to turn to Jeff to talk about public policy.  

JEFFREY KINDLER, VICE CHAIRMAN, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Karen. Good afternoon, everybody. We obviously always will face challenges in the public policy environment, but as Hank said, there have been a number of positive developments in the last few months, and it's worth emphasizing where we see a lot of improvement in the operating environment and particularly in the legislative and regulatory arenas, and I'm just going to very briefly touch on a few of those.  

First and perhaps most importantly, we're seeing substantial progress toward successful implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefits. For one thing, the basic premise to let the marketplace work seems to be proving out. It appears that seniors and the disabled will have many choices of plans. In Maine, for example, just to pick one state, they are estimating they're going to have 10 to 12 plans available in that state alone. So the fact that patients are going to have ample choice among plans indicates that the Medicare plan has passed its first, most important hurdle.  

The next hurdle, of course, is enrollment, and awareness and support for the program is increasing. Recent evidence is that 58% of seniors are aware of the new prescription drug plan and are in favor of it. And that's more than any other segment of the public, but of course, it's the most important. It's the target audience. CMS is working with a broad range of advocacy groups to provide seniors and the disabled with information on how they can enroll beginning November 15 in the plan that best suits their needs. So, we're very encouraged by those developments.  

The next bit of good news in this area is that CMS clearly recognizes the importance of broad access in the Medicare prescription drug benefit to critical medications. For example, they recently announced that they are going to require every plan to cover substantially all drugs in a number of important therapeutic areas like mental health anti-retrovirals and chemotherapy drugs. But beyond these required categories, as individual plans developed their formularies, we're very optimistic that patients are going to have broad access to Pfizer medicines, and perhaps more importantly, a meaningful benefit in general.  

On another subject, the importation debate, I think there is increasing recognition that uninsured Americans can get access to safe and affordable medicines without risking the danger of illegal importation schemes. In July, for instance, the Canadian Health Minister took actions that reflect their recognition in Canada that they can't become the medicine chest for the United States. The Health Minister of Canada proposed changes that would ban wholesale drug exports from Canada to the United States and closed a loophole that allows Canadian doctors to countersign prescriptions signed by U.S. physicians.  

There is increasing awareness of the safety issues created by cross-border movement of pharmaceuticals and the widespread problem of counterfeiting. In the same month, in July, the Canadian authorities conducted a raid on a pharmacy in Ontario, for example, and obtained evidence that the pharmacist was selling large quantities of counterfeit Norvasc.  

China is stepping up its efforts to deal with the very serious counterfeiting problem in that country. The Ministry of Public Security there seized almost 2 million units of finished counterfeit product intended for export -- 1 million Lipitor pills, 0.5 million Norvasc and 0.5 million Viagra. In the last six months, around the world, almost 4 million counterfeit units of Pfizer medicines were seized by law-enforcement and customs officials worldwide. Clearly, counterfeiting and the safety issues presented by cross-border movement of pharmaceuticals has become too serious a problem for anyone to ignore or to deny.  

And, more importantly, there are much better options for patients than risky importation of drugs. The patient assistance programs that Karen mentioned are cheaper, more convenient and safer for Americans. Our programs helped over 2 million patients get 10 million prescriptions last year. And by contrast, many so-called Canadian websites -- websites that go by names like Canadian Rx or have the maple leaf on them -- are in fact importing drugs from a variety of countries around the world that are often produced in very unsafe conditions.  

For most uninsured Americans, our patient assistance programs and the ones that we participate in that Karen mentioned give access to safe and effective medicines at prices lower than these illegal websites. Medicare coverage, which I have already mentioned, is going to be far superior to importation and will go a long way to address the underlying issues of access and affordability. And when that drug benefit takes effect in January, 14 million seniors who currently lack coverage will be able to participate in the program.  

On another front, an area dear to my heart, the litigation environment is beginning to show signs of improvement. As you know, after 10 years of hard work by the business community, Congress enacted class-action reform legislation, which will give us much more certainty and uniformity in defending the many class actions that target our industry.  

In addition, many states with traditionally high concentrations of litigation against pharmaceutical companies, including us, have enacted very significant reforms. In the last six months alone, West Virginia, South Carolina, Missouri, Texas and Georgia have all enacted significant tort reform.  

And finally, clearly a strong, well-resourced expert agency, the FDA is something we very much support and is very much in the interest of American patients. And we're pleased to note, as you are aware, that on Monday, the Senate confirmed Dr. Lester Crawford as FDA Commissioner. This confirmation caps a year of his leadership through a very difficult time. But it now allows the agency to provide stronger focus on its key mission, which is to make sure patients get innovative and safe prescription drugs and appropriate balancing of benefits and risks are made and that patients and their physicians have appropriate, meaningful information in making prescribing decisions.  

So across those areas, as well as many others, we see a lot of significant improvements in the public policy environment in which we're operating and we're optimistic that will continue.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Now we turn to the important part of this meeting, which is your questions. We do have some 250, 300 on the conference call, but I will start with two questions here and then go to those on the telephone conference. Down front, Steve.  

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, S.G. COWEN & CO.: Steve Scala, SG Cowen. First, a question for David. At the analyst meeting in April, I recall you provided an expectation for sales growth in 2006, and I did not see that repeated in today's release, although there is cautionary comments on currency impacts. Can you remind us of the revenue expectation you provided in April for '06, whether that has changed and what it has changed to?  

And then secondly, a question for Dr. LaMattina. You said at the April meeting that a morbidity and mortality study of torcetrapib may be required if the imaging data was not stunning. Should we conclude that this is still the case and could you define stunning in the context of plaque? For instance, is 1/10th of a millimeter at 18 months a stunning outcome in your view?  

HANK MCKINNELL: First, David.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Steve, as it relates to the sales growth, first I will confirm that operationally, nothing has changed. Obviously, foreign exchange is fickle, and the current exchange rates negatively impacting 2005 and would impact 2006 and 2007. Strategically, we talked about and we still believe strongly in the fact that we're going to turn the tide here in terms of loss of exclusivity versus the contributions being made by both the growth of inline products and the contribution from new products.  

While we're looking at double-digit growth in terms of adjusted diluted earnings per share for 2006 and 2007, productivity initiatives will be a key driver in 2006, along with the contribution of revenues, but the primary driver in terms of growth will quickly turn to revenue growth, not cost efficiency, over the planning period. We're not looking askew at the cost savings that we expect from Adapting to Scale, but we know well that longer-term, this has to be a topline-driven company and we fully expect that that in fact will happen.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Just to add to that, David is correct in splitting his answer between operational, meaning at constant -- at current exchange rates versus exchange, and it's certainly true the dollar has strengthened significantly since we last met. But we are seeing strength in underlying operations, and what we haven't seen yet is the approval of the new Celebrex labeling and our relaunch of Celebrex and the launch of Lyrica here very shortly.  

So there's some reason for optimism here on the operational side here. What the exchange rate is 18 months from now, I have no idea, which is why we do everything at constant exchange rates. So, clearly, at this point, weakness in exchange is certainly at the income line being offset by overall strength in operations. So long-term, that should be good news since I'm assuming the dollar won't strengthen forever. John, what is stunning?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: It's in the eye of the beholder, actually. And unfortunately, we're not the beholder here; it's the FDA. What I was trying to do, Steve, in April was moderate some things I was beginning to read in various analyst reports about the eye of the (ph) studies will simply be enough to get approval. And we don't have a guarantee in that regard. A lot will depend on the results we see and how meaningful that is. Remember, we're comparing with Lipitor, which itself is a pretty good compound and will provide some beneficial effect there. We don't have any agreement that says if it's 10% improvement over Lipitor -- 20, 30, 50%, whatever, that we would need to have the morbidity and mortality studies as well. So we'll have to wait and see what the results are and then work with the FDA to move forward.  

HANK MCKINNELL: The epidemiology and the theory is strongly on our side, but the FDA wants more data than that. Hopefully, an advisory panel of physicians who treat real patients will see this for what it is, as a major opportunity to reduce cardiovascular risk. Okay, one more from here and then go to the phones. Tony?  

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Tony Butler, Lehman Brothers. Thank you, Hank. David, two questions and then one follow-up for Dr. LaMattina. When you consider the ATS program, does this imply a permanent cost reduction, which I think when you run a 4 billion is a 12% reduction in overall cost? And secondly, when you consider the overall cost to implement, you're alluding to something around $5 billion. Is that cash? Is that all cash or is it part of non-cash or all for asset impairments?  

And then for Dr. LaMattina. Again, when we consider double-digit earnings growth, clearly one of those factors is very strong Lipitor growth next year and beyond. But the real issue, then, that many people question is how does Lipitor fare when Medicare in particular thinks about generic Simvastatin? And with IDEAL coming on board I think later this year, how do you think that this product is positioned today and will be different next year when you witness generic Simvastatin? Thank you.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Tony, handling the second part of your question, in terms of the cost to implement. First, I would like to highlight the fact that we've reduced that pretty significantly from our first guesstimate on the basis of having a lot more tangible an understanding of exactly what we're about to embark upon, and in a quickly -- quick time frame. I'd expect the vast majority of the 4 to $5 billion, although not exclusively to be cash cost when the day is out.  

As it relates to the ATS cost savings, I think it's important to parse this. There's a certain level of activity we need to carry on on behalf of the Company. And we expect to be able to reduce the cost of carrying that out, all other things being equal, by the $4 billion on an annual basis by 2008. And again, let me reinforce the fact that the vast majority of that is going to come in 2006 and 2007.  

As a separate exercise, we need to take a look at the ups and downs in terms of what we need to finance the ongoing operations. That doesn't mean that overall expenditures will go down by $4 billion. How much it will go down or up will be a product of the cost savings for carrying out the current activity and then combining that with the investments we have to make in terms of supporting especially the inline product portfolio and its growth and the new product potential.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Maybe just let me restate that a little bit. I'm very skeptical of what I call phantom savings -- expenses you save because you would've spent them and now you're not going to spend them. We're actually tracking this back to our 2005 base. This is $4 billion out of the base. Now, from there, we do plan to grow expenditures on marketing support, on research, probably more or less in line with our revenue growth. We manage our business that way every year. That won't change.  

But these are real savings. These are not phantom savings. This is money out of the base and it will grow over time.  

And on Lipitor versus simvastatin, we've already run that experiment. We face generic simvastatin in a number of parts of the world and we're doing just fine, thank you. The one exception is Germany, where the government made a bad decision, and we're hoping to get that reversed in time. Australia, to the contrary, just confirmed that Lipitor has significant benefits over simvastatin, and we will end up with a price premium in Australia. But there is also new clinical data coming, which is a head-to-head study, which John, maybe you want to talk about.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Well, I would say that since 1997, when Lipitor was first approved and marketed, we've spent over $700 million in clinical programs to differentiate that Lipitor shows, in fact, the best statin. And studies like TNT and CARDS have proven that dramatically, such that there are now editorials in various leading medical journals talking about based on TNT, should now the national cholesterol guidelines not be 100 for LDL, but be 80? Based on the CARDS results, should all diabetics now be on Lipitor as a result of what we've seen? So, to a certain extent, I feel we've already done that. I think the data, hopefully, that we continue to generate will continue to support that difference.  

I don't know if there's anything you'd like to --  

KAREN KATEN: Do you want to talk about the Medicare change that roll out and that may change that (multiple speakers)  

PAT KELLY, PRESIDENT - PFIZER US PHARMACEUTICALS & VP, PFIZER INC.: Well, I think it's recognized that Lipitor is most commonly used medication -- branded medication in the Medicare population today, even before the benefit. And as a result, most of the plans, all of which we have been in serious negotiations with, have actually been asking us to make sure that Lipitor is available on their formulary for marketing purposes because that is going to be a primary attractant of these Medicare eligibles to their particular plan.  

You heard Jeff talk about how maybe in Maine, which is part of the northeastern Medicare region, that there may be 10 to 12 different plan sponsors competing against each other for the Medicare eligibles in that area, and all of them are competing for us to give them Lipitor so that they can market that as one of their primary available offerings.  

I'd also point out, too, that much like Hank stated, we actually already face generic simvastatin in the U.S. market. They just call it Vitorin and try to add Zetia to it as a way to make a cent (ph).  

KAREN KATEN: Pat is the President of Pfizer U.S.  

HANK MCKINNELL: We will go to the phones and I guess we know how to do that.  

OPERATOR: David Buck, Buckingham Research Group.  

DAVID BUCK, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Thanks. You mentioned a little bit about Exubera. Can you give us the status of where the negotiations with Sanofi stand in terms of the -- who will be doing the marketing and the actual promotion of it? And what is the wish of Pfizer? Would you prefer to have full rights to that? Is it just still in negotiation? Give us an update there. Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, David, as both parties here have announced, there is a change of control agreement between what was then Aventis and Pfizer which provided us a number of options in the event of a change of control. A New York court has just determined that a change of control has occurred. So, we do have rights now under that change of control agreement. We are in discussions with Sanofi, as Sanofi has confirmed. And when we reach any decision there, we of course will announce it. We're not going to comment on the negotiations as they go along. But maybe it would be worthwhile, John or Karen or Joe, updating us on the regulatory status of Exubera.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: I would simply say the regulatory process is going very well. You have to remember, this is probably the most complicated filing we've ever made because we're dealing with three different agencies -- metabolic, allergy and respiratory and devices. And so, this is not going to be a trivial review process. This is going to be pretty involved and take some time. Now, having said that, things both in Europe and in the U.S. are proceeding well and there haven't been any hiccups that we've seen to date.  

HANK MCKINNELL: One more from the phone.  

OPERATOR: David Moskowitz, Friedman, Billings Ramsey & Co.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS RAMSEY & CO.: Appreciate it and good afternoon. Number one, could you guys talk about the rationale of the Vicuron acquisition? $1.9 billion for products that we calculate somewhere around 500 million in peak -- a price of 75% above the market price. Some feel that you paid too much. Can you talk about that, number one?  

Number two, the Medicare drug benefit -- last quarter, Hank, I believe you said that the Medicare benefit would have a neutral effect. And based on the comments I heard, it sounds like it's moved to be a little bit more positive for the business.  

And then lastly, the gross margin, I have to ask one question -- in the quarter, did Bextra have an impact in terms of any write-offs? Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. On Vicuron, yes, it was a high price, certainly compared to the price the day before the announcement. It was not actually that much of a premium to where Vicuron was a year ago. It was competitive. We won by a very small margin, and we're very pleased to have it. These two products, as I'm sure many of you realize, are right in our sweet spot. These are products that we know the opinion leaders; we know the customers. We're marketing products in those categories already. We're going to do just fine with those, and I think just as we surprised with Diflucan a decade ago and just as we're surprising people with Vfend currently, I think you're going to see a lot more revenue potential from these two products than your estimate applies.  

On the Medicare prescription drug benefit, it's frankly too early to tell. Any time more people get more access to modern medicine, I think that's a win for all of us. We're going to have to wait and see the first-quarter, second-quarter enrollment and update numbers, but almost certainly, this is a positive for the marketplace. There's more money coming into the market. We do expect more people to have access to medicine, and that, I think, will result in significant improvements in health; therefore, lower health care costs for the government long-term. So this is one I think we're going to see a very positive impact from, for everybody -- patients, payers and providers.  

And David, your favorite question on gross margin?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Well, as it relates to the asset write-off impact related to Bextra on gross margin, the answer is no, it didn't have an impact on the quarter. On the other hand, the lower production volumes attendant to losing the sales and obviously the production activity of Bextra did have an impact and will have an impact in 2005.  

HANK MCKINNELL: So, no write-offs, but a volume effect. Okay, we'll come back to the room. Yes?  

DAVE RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Dave Risinger from Merrill Lynch. Two questions. The first is on -- it's an FTC question regarding settling litigation. With respect to major U.S. patent litigation, specifically Lipitor, if you changed your mind and you did want to settle with Ranbaxy, could you do so on reasonable terms, or would the FTC preclude that?  

And then second, could you just comment on the upcoming FDA Drug Watch safety website that's going to be established, and provide some thoughts on that? Thank you.  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Do you want me to take the first one? It's very speculative. The law in this area is changing all the time. There have been some new cases recently. I think you may have written about -- or others have here. It's an evolving area. The law, it depends, frankly, on what part of the country you are in because different circuit courts have come out with different results and you'd have to look at any given deal and exactly what its elements are and analyze it on that basis. So it's really a pretty speculative question. And there's really no value in saying in the absolute terms whether it would or wouldn't work. It would depend on the deal and the specifics, what court you're in and so forth.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Hypothetical question. On the FDA Drug Watch list question, I'm going to ask Peter Corr to give you a little background on the specifics here. But the principal is any information of relevance to a prescribing physician we're going to make available. And I do think with respect to the safety data, I think the media has a special responsibility here and what I'm afraid of is they're going to dredge through all those studies and focus in on the small number of cases of side effects, and frankly scare a lot of people. So I do think the media needs to recognize that they have an important responsibility and they should be informing the public, but not in a way that terrorizes the public.  

PETER CORR, SVP, SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY, PFIZER INC.: I think Hank has answered most of the question. But there has been on their website for the past several months a listing of products that they have concerns about. And in some cases, those haven't been discussed with the sponsor until after they've been posted. I think going forward, what Secretary Levitt indicated and I believe, although I'm not certain that this is agreed to by the new commissioner, Lester Crawford, that new drugs that there were concerns about that there would be a discussion with the sponsor, and then it would be listed there. And to Hank's point, I think it can be a positive if there is true data that indicates that there may be a problem. But there shouldn't be speculation based upon signals and then that put out to the public, because that will concern people in the wrong direction.  

HANK MCKINNELL: What is not well understood is for decades, all pharmaceutical companies have been under a legal obligation to file the results of all studies with the FDA. So the presumption was that the FDA was the arbiter of safety and efficacy with access to all the information and the medical experts at the FDA. We seem to be transitioning now to that becoming the role of the media, and we are okay with that. We are prepared to defend our products in the public domain. But there is a special responsibility on the media here to act responsible. David?  

DAVE RISINGER: I just wanted to confirm your statement you hadn't filed both for Gist and Ferino (ph) or were you talking about (multiple speakers)  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: We haven't filed anything yet. We're working very hard to file for everything as the data roles in and we're ready to do so, but we're not there yet.  

DAVE RISINGER: Do you imagine it will be a simultaneous filing for both (multiple speakers)?  

HANK MCKINNELL: We -- sorry. We understand that many of these questions are directed to smaller companies with competitive products, and number one, we're not going to announce our filing plans. Once the application has been filed and accepted, if there's no other unusual circumstances, we will announce an accepted filing. But we're not going to speculate on future filings -- not particularly material to us, but we understand it is very material to smaller competitive companies. Why go there? We would rather surprise them. Yes, Nile, down front. Neil. Sorry.  

NEIL SWEIG, ANALYST, CARIS: Neil Sweig at Caris. What catalyst should we look forward to in '06 or '07 that might tell us that you need more than $4 billion in cost savings? Because when we run through the numbers, given the huge size of this Company, it just seems to me that considerably more than $4 billion can be done for this Company and not waiting until '08 to come to that decision. I think that is your retirement here, is it not, Hank?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Possibly.  

NEIL SWEIG: So, not looking out too far -- let's say 12 months or second half of '06, what should we be aware of that is going wrong as you announce that we're going to -- the Company is going to add more to the $4 billion in anticipated cost savings '05 into '08?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, Neil, a couple of things. One is our plans do not indicate we need more than $4 billion to achieve our announced goals. We also recognize that sustainable greatness doesn't come from cost reduction. It comes from the topline -- something that we are particularly good at doing. And I do think that the opportunity in this pipeline is far greater than maybe we needed to offset the products that are off patent. And having said that, some of the world's biggest products are going off patent here. So, it's the strength of our pipeline that drives our confidence.  

Watch the launches. We're launching three in the next -- well, launching two and relaunching one in the next few months. The uptake of Lyrica is going to be a clear indicator, and based on what we've seen elsewhere, that will be -- that should be a good positive indicator.  

I would also add, don't be surprised if we do exceed the $4 billion. I've always said around this place, be careful what you ask for because you're going to get a lot of it. And we are really getting some very innovative proposals coming forward from the organization in terms of doing things faster, better, cheaper or doing things in quite different ways to transform the way we do business.  

We're not forecasting anything over $4 billion. But if this effort yields over 4 billion, I would not be surprised by that. But it's not going to come from kind of nervousness about the future and we're going to be targeting more now. But I think we've got that on the topline. That's really the way to build a great company.  

Yes, and then I'll go there.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Chris Shibutani from J.P. Morgan. Two questions tied to comments you've made using the word realignment. One is on the R&D side and the other is on the spending. On the R&D side, you talk about realigning how the development and the research occurs more around disease areas. Forgive me if this seems very oversimplified, but that seems very fundamental. How much does that represent a change and how does that actually improve sort of the platonic question of R&D productivity?  

And then on the sales side, you comment about a realignment around the proposed districting tied to Medicare Modernization Act. I guess my impression is that we're not hearing that from competitors. Again, how does that realignment give you sort of a strategic or competitive advantage and kind of -- I might be missing it, but why are you doing that?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Those are actually insightful questions. Like every other pharmaceutical company, we have discovery sites. We do development on a global basis. We have medical departments; we have marketing; we have sales forces. And as a product moves through its lifecycle, there is multiple handovers from the discovery organization to development, development to marketing and sales -- manufacturing is in there somewhere, obviously. There are a large number of handovers as product moves through the lifecycle.  

We're not exactly turning the organization on its side, but we are organizing by therapeutic areas so that the metabolic disease area -- we have six or eight. I forget now -- how many do we have?  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We've got two more than that, actually.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, whatever the number is. A big number. We're aligning all the way from discovery to development to marketing to sales, so that as we do planning -- as we do acquisitions, for example, we have in the room people from discovery who understand competitive patent filings and where the technology is to the medical and marketing people, who understand the medical need, and we do that by therapeutic area.  

It's not yet an organizational change, which is why we call it a realignment. We're aligning our resources the way the work is done. So we think it's an important step forward. We're generating an enormous amount of excitement and innovation in the organization, and it's really working. It's early days, but it's something we've been working at for quite some time, and we just kind of formally launched it internally this time.  

On the realignment of the field force, that is a realignment. People are moving. We're changing districts. Medicare -- and Pat, I will ask you to comment a little further -- Medicare will have regions on in January. We want our sales force to match those regions. We also want to align or realign our sales effort to individual doctors, so they see fewer sales representatives and we actually end up delivering more details as a result of this alignment. We think both are going to be major competitive advantages. Pat, on sales force?  

PAT KELLY: Not much more to add except that the other benefit is, as Hank earlier stated, is that that alignment will not only occur to Medicare regions, so a geographic alignment, but it will also occur, as he just stated, to a customer level. So we're realigning how many representatives we have calling on any given primary care physician. And then the third way is we're also realigning into therapeutic area clusters, which sets us up to be in line with the entirety of the rest of the organization.  

All of these things I think are a further extension of our already pre-existing competitive advantage in this area. Pfizer's field force has been rated number one by these same physician customers for the last 10 years in a row, and a lot of that has been because we have made these kinds of adjustments to better meet their needs. This reflects a further extension of that effort.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And this sales force will be in place by the end of August. So we are a formidable -- a formidable competitor is becoming more formidable. Yes, right behind here.  

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Catherine Arnold from Credit Suisse. You have told us that you plan to decrease your manufacturing facilities by 25% and you tell us of progress in the press release today. Would you give us a sense for what contingent of that 25% you have already accomplished as of now and where you will be at the end of next year?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Is Matt here? I guess -- I didn't see him -- no. Our head of manufacturing is probably off closing plants somewhere. We have announced a large number of plant closings. As you might imagine, that takes time, because to move -- to close a plant, you have to move the production somewhere. And we're not just going to start stop producing stuff. So, moving the production means reregistration in a new location in a new approved plant. That usually is a two- to three-year process.  

So we have the network drafted. What we haven't done is announced the whole network, because that would mean announcing to the public before people in those locations already know. But so far this year we must have announced, what, seven or eight? And we're going from -- already closed four; we've announced another four or five. I think we're going from 93 to 70? Is that the order of magnitude numbers? So it's -- yes, it's about 25%, that's right.  

But what we'll end up with are more modern plants, more dedicated plants so we don't have as many different products. It will be a much more efficient manufacturing network than we have currently, which should improve profitability over this period as well.  

Way in the back.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: It's Jami Rubin with Morgan Stanley. The comments in your press release targeted towards the Pfizer Global Research & Development division would suggest that you are targeting significant cuts in R&D spending going forward after 2005, streamlining decision-making, concentrating your resources on products with the highest probability of success. That all tells me that you are going to significantly reduce the amount you spend in your R&D going forward. Is that the right way to look at this? What are you trying to tell us? Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: No. What we are actually doing, and I will ask John to comment on this, we are reducing the cost of doing research quite significantly, and if we are successful in what we call ATF2, the Attrition Task Force, second version, we're going to have a dramatic impact on productivity, which will lower the cost of research. The activity level, which is what you should be worried about, is actually going to be far higher. John, could you add a little flesh to those bones?  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Yes, I thought that this question might come up as you read that we're cutting R&D as a result of trying to make cost savings. And in fact, as Hank said, what we did was we went to our organization and asked, are there better ways of doing things? Not even just simply, but more efficiently that we can do more with the existing budget that we have, which having over $7 billion in R&D is sort of a nice luxury in many ways and enabled us to do an awful lot of things.  

Coming back to Chris' earlier question, one of the things we found by the reorganization that we're doing is previously we were really site-focused, with all sites having all aspects of R&D, and by going to a therapeutic area focus and going to centers of emphasis, where we have certain centers that will do certain support work for the entire organization across the globe, we found tremendous savings that can be envisioned -- doing our clinical trials somewhat differently; also going through a different philosophy in terms of our bulk production. You know, bulk production in terms of early clinical trials.  

We had a philosophy that every compound was going to make it and every team was pretty bullish, and we tried to do as much as we can upfront. As excited as we are about all of our programs, we realized that there is some certain degree of attrition going forward and so we've tempered our -- how much we invest in programs early on to get something as rapidly as possible to proof of concept. And once we've gotten proof of concept, then let in the resources to move things more quickly.  

It is stunning how much money we can actually save by doing things in that nature. We refer to it more as a biotech paradigm, so to speak. And I think we've already started to adopt that and I think we'll see some greater savings along the way.  

One more point in all of this. People talk about size and scale, and sometimes it's looked at in terms of slowness or plodding. I can't begin to tell you how much savings there are that you can take out in scale as you begin to take a number of companies down and focus and the like. I find it hard to believe that the kind of savings we're seeing and generating as a result of our scale won't translate to others in the industry trying to do the same thing. I think the amount that we'll be able to spend -- the amount that we will be able to use in our spend far more efficiently than we did even before the pharmacy acquisition is amazing. And I think that's the way to go in the future, for at least big pharma.  

HANK MCKINNELL: The way I think of division of adapting to -- or adapting -- the efficient task force is that we can take our 98% failure rate to 96%, we will have doubled productivity. Now, the heart of your question -- does that mean we're going to cut our costs in half? The answer is no. Our goal is to double the output from research, spending what we now spend and more. So the goal of all this is not cost savings. It's to make the organization more efficient, more effective and get more product out the door, which is what -- those products that patients are waiting for.  

So the goal here is not just cost reduction. You will see some cost impact on the P&L. But a lot of that is going to come through in greater survivability of the candidates we take into development. And in fact, one of I guess my fears here is if we are successful, we're going to see a lot more spending on the early- to mid-stage pipeline than we're even now anticipating. And if that happens, I'm going to let it happen, because I think that is our future, and if we end up for a year or two with not a big number -- maybe 1 or $200 million of additional spending in research because we have even more candidates surviving than we had planned for, that's a really good thing. It's a bad thing in that year, but that's the way you build a great business.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: Will you all write that down for me, please? (multiple speakers) I can remind you of that (multiple speakers)  

HANK MCKINNELL: I said a little more, John. I used to kid John that he had an unlimited budget, and every year he overspent it, but probably not true anymore. Let's go to the phones and see if we have any questions there.  

OPERATOR: Michael Caster (ph), Sanford Bernstein.  

MICHAEL CASTER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thanks very much. When I listen to you talk about the productivity initiatives that are going on, they strike me as things that should go on in the normal course of business. Can you talk a little bit more as to why the 4 to 5 billion that you're going to spend getting these productivity initiatives are not included in the earnings and why there won't be continued spending to continue to maximize your margin going forward beyond 2008?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, you're right. These to some extent are normal course of business. You're always looking for ways to do things faster, better and cheaper. I would only remind you that over the last five years, during the Warner-Lambert integration, we took out $4 billion; during the Pharmacia integration, we took out $6 billion. So, we've taken a lot of expense out of the system already.  

The reason we've made this a special initiative is yes, in part we need the cost savings to produce reasonable profit growth during these two years of transition, but more importantly, we see a great opportunity, having been through two massive integrations, going back in now with people who have now had a number of years in this restructured organization who have just seen better ways of doing things. This is something that was not really driven top-down. It did bubble up from the bottom. And I don't know what the count is on the website requesting or suggesting improvements now; a month or so ago it was 2000. We're getting enormous input from the organization, telling us there's a better way to do this.  

And the significance of what we do is not lost on our colleague. They do see, for example, our national sales manager in the United States, having died of cancer last week after a two-month struggle with cancer -- 63 years of age. It's clear what this organization is all about -- it's helping people like that live a longer, happier life. And the ideas that are coming forward are very powerful. Do you know the latest number, David or Karen?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: One of the things I would like to reinforce here, and maybe this is getting missed in the message that we're putting out externally, is we're asking the organization not to just get better. We expect that on an ongoing basis. What we're recognizing and what we're accommodating is for the organization to do things in some respects dramatically different than it is today. We can't scale up and continue to scale up the way we've done in the past to accommodate the growth potential of this company.  

That's why we will reorganize. That's why we will realign various major functions. That's why we will dramatically reduce the infrastructure. That's why we will drive regionalization and standardization of what we're doing in the Company so that we can bolt-on and bolt-off the things that we have to bring into the Company.  

So this is not business as usual. It's well understood by the colleagues. I think they are energized by the fact this is an opportunity to change in a direction which can have a dramatic impact on the Company as a whole. Jon talked to you about some of the things in research -- reducing the number of data centers from 17 to four. That's not business as usual. Reducing the number of manufacturing operations to over 90 to less than 70. That's not business as usual. And you can't accommodate this unless you change the way you operate.  

The great benefit of our Company is not only our scale, but the great talent and enthusiasm and courage we have in the colleagues of the Company who are willing to do this and in fact are enthusiastic despite the fact that this is emotional and difficult to accomplish. And I want to make sure that's not being missed in terms of what we're looking to achieve here, and in fact, the plan that we've put together clearly has that implicit.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, phone.  

OPERATOR: Robert Hazlett, SunTrust.  

ROBERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: My question is on Celebrex. Regarding the field for support and the label negotiations, if you can give us any additional clarity as to the timing of your discussions and the potential for resolution with regard to the label, so you can reengage the field force, and if you could also remind us as to the additional clinical data that is coming out in support of that franchise over the long term? Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Karen, do you want Susan Silverman to handle that?  

KAREN KATEN: I will speak to the label. We're negotiating as we speak on the label for Celebrex. And we don't have a final labeling, but we know what the issues are, and so we frankly are disappointed that it has taken so long because we wanted to do it immediately after the advisory. But it's moving along and we will have the label very soon. And I would like to ask Susan Silverman to talk about the clinical data that we're seeing coming out, which again I think portends well for the future of Celebrex.  

SUSAN SILVERMAN, PFIZER INC.: Good afternoon, everyone. We're working on revising our entire clinical plan for Celebrex. Obviously the data and the information that we have received over the past 10 months have made us rethink our clinical program, so we can use the strength of the science we have to move forward in pain and inflammation.  

One thing I can say is in the last 10 months, the number of people that have arthritis haven't changed. So, they definitely need drugs, and we're doing the best, as Karen said earlier, to make science prevail. We're doing a lot of work to make sure we have data to support our package. We're relooking at the data we have. We have tens of thousands of patients in the database. I think you'll be seeing new data soon. Our major studies will probably kick off towards the end of this year, once we have the label final. So those won't have data for a number of years. But we will have other smaller studies that we'll be starting -- we'll be reading out over the next four to six quarters.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes, there is some reason for optimism here. Remember what has happened already -- the FDA found no difference in cardiovascular risk between Celebrex and the traditional nonsteroidals -- naproxen and ibuprofen and diclofenac. The FDA also concluded that the benefits of Celebrex outweigh its risks and that Celebrex is an important treatment option for patients with pain. All of that will be reflected in the label.  

Celebrex also, according to the FDA, does not cause heart attacks and strokes. So all of that will be in the label that will give us the chance with the new data that is now available or shortly to become available to relaunch Celebrex. And I think there is some real reason for optimism here, not only for our revenue line but the patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.  

I'll take one or two more from inside, and then our time is up. Yes?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: When we think about your cost base and the 4 billion that you're going to take out, how should we think about just normal inflation on that cost base, not associated with any topline growth you expect to achieve?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, inflation is not the key variable in the cost base. We write checks for that cost base, so it's under our control. The costs do go up a little bit year by year. The complicating factor is this happens over a three-year period. But if we're able to do it in the current year, it would be easy to understand, because costs would go down by $4 billion and then we would grow those costs over the next three to five years as we decide, which would be more or less in line with revenue and the opportunities for investment that we have.  

So you will see the $4 billion reconciled back to this year's cost savings. But we will then manage what's remaining based on the opportunities available for us to invest. And you know, as kind of a rule of thumb, it will probably be pretty close to our revenue growth.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess another way to ask it -- if there is no topline growth between now and '08, and I know that's not your plan, but would your cost base at that point be $4 billion lower?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes. Well, again, we would manage it, but yes, if we had no revenue growth, we probably would manage it so there was no cost growth. But that is not our expectation. We expect accelerating revenue growth through this period.  

Okay, one more, I think, and then we're done. We exhausted you. Great. Okay, Steve again.  

STEVE SCALA: I know you said that the Oporia review is progressing, but what exactly happened on the PDUFA date? Presumably you got an approvable blotter pending something, but what is it pending?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: So this is why we don't like to reveal what filing dates are because then stuff like this -- and I read various reports that start questioning something must have happened untoward in the program and like. This is a pretty big filing, also another complicated one. There are a number of questions that the FDA had. We were very thorough in our responses to these questions -- so thorough and provided so much data that the FDA decided that this was now -- added far more data that constituted a new review cycle. And so they've added three months to the review period. And so no -- and again, this comes back to our reason for being somewhat less open about these, because this is the review -- common review things that happened in the course of these programs, and that's where we are. So again, nothing untoward has happened just yet, but there's a lot more data that's been provided to the FDA and they need more time to review it.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you all. That concludes the session.  

KAREN KATEN: Thank you.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | npeo : People Profile | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050803e17k0018i
  


 HD
 Q1  2005  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,192 words
   PD
19 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Dr. McKinnell, you may begin.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER INC.: Hello everyone and welcome to Pfizer's first-quarter 2005 conference call and webcast. I'm Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO of the Company. I'm in New York this afternoon with my colleagues from Pfizer, some of whom you will be hearing from shortly, others you will hear from in response to your questions. As always, thank you for your time, your interest and your support.  

   TD
Once again, Pfizer delivered steady performance in the first quarter. I say Pfizer, but Pfizer today is really two companies, the product of two underlying forces. One Pfizer markets the broadest array of in-line and new products in the industry. Excluding the U.S. revenues of Neurontin, Diflucan and Accupril, products that faced generic competition beginning in 2005, and excluding Celebrex and Bextra, which faced unique challenges, Pfizer revenues for the first quarter of 2005 grew 19%. Our Consumer Health Care business grew 17% and our Animal Health business grew 16% in the quarter.  

The other Pfizer is the business going through the natural process of addressing the loss of exclusivity of a number of products, a situation that we had long planned for by advancing a number of internally developed in-licensed and co-promoted product candidates and maximizing revenues from our wide array of in-line products. As a leader of the worldwide pharmaceutical industry, we have important competitive advantages that serve us well and distinguish us from others. The unparalleled breadth and depth of our product portfolio and pipeline, plus our proven skills at leveraging the opportunities this provides, will serve us well.  

Scale also enhances our status of partner of choice with other companies who have promising product candidates and technology, as well as giving us influence as a global purchaser of goods and services. Our strategic and operating flexibility allows us to marshal and focus resources when and where they are needed, to change with a changing environment and to recognize and seize opportunities and our will to succeed in the important work of improving human health remains as strong as ever.  

Now I will ask David Shedlarz, Vice Chairman, to provide comments on the quarter and the outlook for 2005, followed by Karen Katen, Vice Chairman and President, Pfizer Human Health. David?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, EVP & CFO, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Hank, and good afternoon everyone. As Frank indicated, Pfizer performed well in the first quarter and the Company's long-term prospects remain strong. Pfizer revenues for the first quarter of 2005 grew 5% to $13.1 billion, compared to the first quarter of 2004, reflecting strong performances by Lipitor, Zithromax and other major product lines.  

Revenue growth was also due to three additional days in our fiscal calendar in the quarter compared to the prior year, as well as the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to a number of foreign currencies offset in part by sales declines for Celebrex and Bextra and recent generic competition in the U.S. against Neurontin, Diflucan and Accupril.  

Cost of sales as a percent of revenues in the first quarter of 2005 was adversely impacted by changes in production volume as well as geographic, segment and product mix, largely reflecting the loss of exclusivity of certain major products in the U.S. and lower year-over-year sales of COX-2 products compared to the first quarter of 2004. Cost of sales as a percent of revenues will remain under pressure in 2005.  

R&D spending increased 7% in the quarter due to the advancement of a number of our pipeline products. Full-year R&D spending is expected to be approximately $8 billion. Finally, the effective tax rate on the adjusted income increased to 23%, reflecting changes in geographic and product mix.  

We expect 2005 to be a transition year for Pfizer due to a number of factors. Results in 2005 are being and will continue to be impacted by loss of U.S. exclusivity of major products Diflucan, Neurontin and Accupril during 2004 and Zithromax in 2005. Revenues have also been and will continue to be impacted by publicity and regulatory actions regarding COX-2 selective inhibitors. Full-year revenues will be substantially unchanged as growth from other product lines is offset by these factors.  

The suspension of sales up Bextra in the U.S., EU and other markets in early April is expected to reduce our previously announced targeted full year 2005 adjusted and reported diluted earnings-per-share by approximately $0.05. Bextra asset write-offs are expected to reduce our previously announced targeted full-year 2005 reported diluted earnings-per-share by an additional $0.10.  

However, 2005 results are no longer expected to be impacted by the adoption of new accounting regulations relating to the expensing of stock options due to a change in the implementation date of the new regulations announced by the SEC last week. These regulations have been expected to result in an after-tax expense reducing 2005 adjusted and reported diluted earnings-per-share by $0.03. Pfizer expects to implement SFAS 123-R regarding expensing of stock options as of January 1, 2006.  

Given these and other factors, we expect 2005 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.98 and reported diluted earnings per share of approximately $1.04. Throughout 2005 and beyond, we will sustain both the capability and will to make those investments necessary to support long-term growth. Pfizer's financial strength remains unprecedented and will be enhanced by the cash repatriation of $28.3 billion in foreign earnings during this year. With the current quarterly dividend of $0.19 per share, which is 12% higher than last year, we're continuing the Company's commitment to strong growth in dividends both today and in the future. We will accelerate and complete our current share purchase program in the second quarter by purchasing approximately $2.4 billion of the Company's stock in this quarter alone. Early in the second half of this year, we will consider additional opportunities to purchase the Company's stock.  

A number of factors are expected to drive a return to double-digit adjusted earnings growth in 2006. We're undertaking a new broad-based multiyear productivity initiative to increase efficiency and effectiveness of all operations companywide. Annual savings are projected to total $4 billion by 2008. Improved revenue performance is also anticipated in 2006 as many of our existing products continue to grow. We experience renewed growth of Celebrex and the contribution of new products increases. Revenue growth, enhanced by continuing productivity initiatives, is expected to drive a strong 2007, but we anticipate accelerating double-digit adjusted earnings growth.  

As usual, I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussions include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2004 annual report on Form 10-K and in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.  

Also in this call, we have discussed and/or will be discussing financial and other information as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K dated April 19, 2005. This report is available on our web site at  www.Pfizer.com  in the For Investors SEC Filings by Pfizer section. Now I would like to turn things over to Karen Katen.  

KAREN KATEN, VICE CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT - PFIZER HUMAN HEALTH, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, David. Hello, everyone. As you have heard, 2005 will be a transition year for Pfizer, but as you will see we have the ability to manage our business through difficult times as we always do by treating disease with aggression, patience with compassion and shareholders investment with discipline.  

The Human Health organization's underlying strength was evident during the first quarter of this year through its solid performance despite patent expirations and COX-2 regulatory situations. The strength of our medicines are sustained through a body of robust clinical data made stronger through investments in new clinical trials and leveraged through skillful execution and continuous improvement. First quarter numbers show what a solid portfolio with balance, depth and breadth can do to offset unfortunate market events.  

Human Health revenues grew 4% in the first quarter, led by strong performance from a host of established products, such as Lipitor ahead 23%, Aromasin ahead 134%, Camptosar ahead 132%, Vetrol (ph), Vetrol LA ahead 22%, Xalatan/Xalacom ahead 19%, Zithromax ahead 71%, Zoloft ahead 4%, Zyrtec ahead 14% and Zyvox plus 47%. New introductions made strong contributions as well. Geodon was ahead 56%, Relpax up 77%, Vfend plus 38% and Caduet ahead 10%.  

This solid in-line portfolio performance was more than positioned to mitigate the first quarter sales decline for Celebrex and Bextra and for Neurontin, Diflucan and Accupril because of generic entries.  

We continued to strengthen our portfolio during the first quarter with new medicine. In the United States, we successfully introduced Macugen, a major new medicine, and we filed for Exubera, an important new diabetes treatment option. Vfend was approved in Japan, the world's second-largest antifungal market.  

Strategically impressive is our recent progress in our already promising pipeline. It now stands 78 product enhancement projects and 149 new molecular entities. Human Health took an important step toward becoming more efficient during the first quarter as well as part of an ongoing organizational change throughout the Company toward more end-to-end process clarity, faster decision-making, quicker market response and more efficient and aligned operations. The evolution of our HH organization will go a long way toward helping Pfizer reach our enterprise-wide target of $4 billion in annualized cost savings by the year 2008.  

We've also made recent progress in piloting new business solutions through some of the most urgent problem of health care systems in the U.S. and around the world. I will provide more details on some of these items in a minute, but first let me talk about specific first quarter product performance, starting with the COX-2's.  

As you are all abundantly aware, the FDA decided to require warnings on all NSAIDs, both prescription and over-the-counter, including our COX-2 Celebrex. We will work with the FDA to add the expanded risk information they require for the Celebrex label. As you know, we have accumulated extensive Celebrex clinical data over the past 10 years and we're committed to conducting even more long-term clinical studies to better evaluate -- further evaluate the benefits and risks of Celebrex. We will do this because there are patients for whom nothing but Celebrex works and we want to continue making this important option available to them. We will also work closely with the FDA to develop a guide to help patients and their health care professionals make the best decisions for treating their arthritis pain.  

Regarding Bextra, the FDA has asked us to suspend sales in the United States. While we respectfully disagree with the agency's position regarding the overall benefit risk profile of Bextra, we have complied. We also suspended Bextra sales in non-U.S. markets at the request of local regulators. We will continue to stay in close contact with regulatory agencies around the world to take appropriate measures as required.  

Aside from the COX-2 situation and the patent expirations we face, our portfolio is balanced and is strong and as its performance during the first quarter demonstrates, our core Human Health business remains fundamentally sound. Lipitor, for instance -- after seven years on the market, Lipitor still shows double-digit growth off the largest base of any pharmaceutical medicine ever. It had first quarter revenue of $3.075 billion, ahead 23%, and showed strong growth in share and prescription volume around the world. The expanding wall of Lipitor clinical evidence underscores the efficacy and safety of this remarkable medicine. The most recent results from the Treating to New Targets, or TNT study, found that intensive therapy with Lipitor 80 milligrams can reduce cholesterol and cardiovascular events significantly with a comparable safety profile to low-dose Lipitor therapy.  

Norvasc first quarter revenue reached $1.175 billion, ahead 3% despite loss of exclusivity in several European markets. Its performance in the U.S. is strong with 11% growth in the first quarter and new prescription growth outpacing the overall cardiovascular market. This is bolstered by the recent ASCOT clinical trial, which demonstrated a 25% reduction in cardiovascular mortality with Norvasc therapy.  

Zithromax sales were $797 million in the first quarter, ahead 71%. We filed a single-dose Zmax formulation with the FDA, which offers a one time, one dose antibiotic course of therapy that will improve compliance by allowing directly observed therapy in the presence of a health care provider.  

Viagra contributed $438 million in first-quarter revenue, up 5%. It still leads the market despite competition and does sell because of its unique functional and emotional benefits. New clinical data and reinvigorated sales and marketing efforts should continue to fuel Viagra performance.  

Now let me quickly highlight the contributions of a few recently launched medicines that should continue to grow by the way based on new clinical data and better market acceptance. First, Lyrica, now launched in the UK, Germany and Mexico, is showing strong first-year market performance and rapid uptake with 8.1% revenue share of the total antiepileptic market in Germany and 5.3% share in the UK after just five months on these markets. It should launch later in 2005 in the United States for diabetic peripheral neuropathy and posttraumatic (ph) neuralgia, pending the completion of a scheduling designation.  

Vfend revenue reached $88 million, up 38% and a new candidemia indication approval in December 2004 will help United States patients at risk for both mold and yeast infections. Also just a few days ago, Vfend received approval for a broad first-line antifungal indication in Japan, which is the world's second-largest antifungal market.  

Geodon continues to outperform the market and was up 56% in the first quarter with revenue of $138 million. The recently launched bipolar mania indication expands the potential Geodon patient pool and the market is welcoming the very distinct benefits of this agent over older products.  

Pfizer, along with other manufacturers of atypical antipsychotics, recently received a request from the FDA to add a Black Box warning to the Geodon label regarding an increased mortality risk in patients with dementia-related psychosis. The proposed new labeling is based on a meta analysis from 17 placebo-controlled clinical trials of other atypical antipsychotic agents in patients with dementia. Geodon was not in that meta analysis.  

Now turning to the pipeline, we have a range of late-stage candidates sourced through internal R&D and external activities alike with significant promise to replenish and grow our future portfolio. Many of these candidates target disease areas with significant unmet medical needs. Our research engine is reliably generating new energy, advancing 10 new candidates into preclinical development during just the first quarter of this year. Just as impressive is the fact that our licensing and technology alliance teams are completing deals at a pace of one every two weeks.  

Our advanced development pipeline includes key compounds, such as Sutent for cancer, Branicline (ph) for smoking cessation; Maraviroc UK-427857, it's a CCR 5 antagonist for HIV (indiscernible); Asenapine for psychosis; Torcetrapib/atorvastatin for athro (ph) and Daxas for respiratory disease.  

Pfizer Global Research and Development invests more than $20 million every working day on finding new medicines, which makes it one of the world's largest research institutions. It's an obvious strength we intend to keep building through productivity enhancements to better leverage the strategic advantages afforded by our vast scale. That optimization process also includes ongoing rationalization in our global manufacturing plant network to reduce the number of our manufacturing operations and distribution facilities so that we can optimally meet our current and future product supply needs.  

New medicines also have to be delivered more effectively of course, so realigning our U.S. field force already long recognizes the industry's best in quality and productivity to serve a changing promotional environment. And to put this all in the largest possible content and help, as you've heard us say many times before, Human Health has both a duty and a business opportunity to meet critical health needs beyond innovative pharmaceuticals. In the broadest sense, our goal has been to advance the cause of better health, which is a cause that we share with many other stakeholders. We believe this can best be accomplished by shifting the health care debate to the value of health and the cost of disease and away from the price of medicine.  

We also believe these efforts will ultimately secure a leadership position for us in health as well as protect the future of innovative medicines. We have made recent progress here too by piloting new business approaches that represent solutions to some of the most urgent problems facing health-care systems in the United States and around the world. We're convinced these solutions will serve as templates for relief of serious health issues and cost pressures for patient populations and payers for the future.  

We're also trying to move health care systems to the next generation. We're piloting new levels of care based on the premise that better health at lower cost is not only possible, but it is achievable.  

One of our most exciting initiatives in this area is the Green Ribbon Health Program in partnership with Humana. This three-year program will provide care management services to approximately 20,000 Medicare patients in Florida who have congestive heart failure, diabetes or both conditions, all part of the center for Medicare and Medicaid services and CMS efforts to find the best ways to manage the care of chronically ill, high-risk Medicare beneficiaries.  

We are convinced that in the end, meeting the needs and patients and establishing the value of health cannot help but serve the best interest of the public, of our communities, of our business and ultimately, of all our stakeholders, a virtuous value equation of meeting needs with solutions that will inevitably accrue benefits to our shareholders. Thank you very much, and with that, I would like to turn is back to Hank.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, Karen. Today, we face a paradox. On the one hand, the opportunities for bringing innovative lifesaving medicines to patients have never been greater. On the other hand, the challenges for companies like Pfizer have also never been greater. But at Pfizer, we've faced important challenges before and we have always addressed them with energy and resolve and emerged a stronger company.  

Pfizer has a dynamic organizational of dedicated colleagues to navigate the challenges that lie ahead, and I appreciate all their efforts. I'm confident that Pfizer's people, equipped with our innovative products and unsurpassed capabilities, will once again propel our company to long-term success. And now, your questions please.  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). David Risinger, Merrill Lynch.  

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. My question is related to the torcetrapib. You have shared with us the timing for torcetrapib imaging studies to be completed in late 2006. And in case the FDA chooses to require outcome studies or maybe just one outcome study to approve the product, can you provide the timing for outcomes data? Thank you.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Number one, it's not clear that morbidity-mortality data will be required and the morbidity-mortality studies are underway. But let me ask Joe Feczko or John LaMattina to add to that.  

DR. JOHN LAMATTINA: I think that, you would add, we said the imaging studies will come down at the end of next year, so it's the end '06. Add about another two years or so for morbidity-mortality studies to start getting their first results there, so that would be late '08, early '09.  

DAVID RISINGER: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Timothy Anderson, Prudential Equity Group.  

TIMOTHY ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Thank you. A question on gross margins and actually just going back to the analyst meeting you had recently in which David I believe said that 2005 would be the nadir. Can you confirm that that is indeed the case? And if I could also just get your comments on prescription trends for generic Mevacor, which basically suggest managed care successfully pushing one of the most inferior products here in the statin categories solely based on cost, makes me wonder what's going to happen once Zocor and Prevacol are available in the next year or so, generically.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Well, one of the real strengths of Lipitor is its ability to get patients to go where other products can't do that. That's the real power of the Treat to New Targets study, which shows what we've known for a long time, which is lower is better. And in fact, that study shows that lipid levels of 80 or maybe even lower continue to provide benefit, and you just can't get there with the older agents. So that does make Lipitor quite unique.  

I don't think we're going to see a long-term threat from the sort of therapeutic substitution that you're talking about. Time will tell, but it is in the interest certainly of the patient, but we also believe the managed care organizations themselves or Medicare to actually provide high-quality care, which both improves outcomes and lower cost. Karen referred to the Green Ribbon experiment we're running in Florida, one of nine under CNS, and the whole point of that is by putting the patient at the center, not the payer at the center, you both improve outcomes and achieve lower costs. So this is going to be a battle. It has been a battle for a long time, but there is a reason that getting to target predicts as both health outcomes and cost benefits. David, on gross margin?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: As we highlighted, gross margin in 2005 will be under pressure. A number of factors, including change in production volume, geographic segment and product mix reflecting a host of factors. But there's hope and that hope relates to the ongoing productivity initiatives that the Company is embarking upon and the opportunity to continue to rationalize the manufacturing facilities on an ongoing basis, as well as the increased volume coming from the introduction and establishment of new products.  

OPERATOR: Mario Corso, Summer Street Research.  

MARIO CORSO, ANALYST, SUMMER STREET RESEARCH: Thanks for taking my question. In terms of the COX-2 inhibitors, could you elaborate a little bit more on your expectations in terms of, number one, timing when Celebrex labeling might be worked out? In terms of Bextra, what there really is to discuss with the FDA? And in terms of potential usage, would you anticipate Celebrex declining more from current levels and then rebounding with some post-Bextra use? Thank you very much.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Let me ask Susan Silverman (ph), who has been leading this effort on our behalf of a very large team, as you might imagine, that has been living these sorts of issues for the last four months I guess it is now, or longer.  

SUSAN SILVERMAN, PFIZER INC.: Thank you, Hank. I think in terms of our expectations on timing, we have had discussions with the FDA last week as everyone knows around the Bextra suspension, but we were not given any concrete expectations on timing for the Celebrex label, nor for the new warnings that will be added to the NSAIDs, as Karen mentioned, both OTC and Rx.  

In terms of the question around Bextra, I think our expectations are to work with the FDA and other regulators around the world to perhaps find a way to manage the risk that has been identified and continue to make Bextra available to patients. It's not something that is easy for us to put timing on, but we have committed to go back to the FDA in the near future to discuss those plans.  

In terms of rebound for Celebrex or whether Celebrex has actually reached its low point, I think it's awfully early for us to tell. It's less than 10 days since the Bextra suspension in the U.S. and also in Europe. So I would hesitate to give you a prognosis on where Celebrex might turn. I think we have plans in place to continue to grow Celebrex over the current period and I think we will start to see that once we get some of the final regulatory (indiscernible) in place.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: (indiscernible), do you want to add to that?  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I would just add that, as the most recent weekly prescriptions would indicate that for three weeks in a row, Celebrex has led the market in market share gain for new prescriptions. So one might argue, although it's early still as Susan said, that we are started on the way up.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: The fundamental issue here frankly is all of these agents will have the same warnings. We have done so much clinical work though that we have a wealth of positive information on both the benefit and the safety side that we think it's our responsibility to fully inform physicians as to the benefits and risks of Celebrex and then to allow physicians with patients to decide what treatment option is best for that particular patient. And we do believe in that world that Celebrex will prove to be a very important treatment option for millions of patients, here in the United States and abroad. John LaMattina, you want to add?  

DR. JOHN LAMATTINA: I just wanted to point out to callers that there was an important paper presented yesterday in Anaheim at the American Association for Cancer Research based on some work being done in Norway. Some physicians wanted to see whether Ensense (ph) could prevent oral cancers because various data suggested this might be the case. And they went into a Norwegian cancer registry which had a database of in excess of 100,000 patients. And there, they looked at people who had a high risk of developing oral cancer. And in fact, what they found at looking over a 20-year period, that in fact people on Ensense did have a drop in the oral cancer that they were getting, but they didn't have a higher survival rate. And that's because those people also had a twofold increase in cardiovascular events.  

So a lot of what has been missed from the advisory committee, although the FDA certainly hasn't missed this with the labeling changes that they are proposing, are that Celebrex and Ensense are not all that different in terms of cardiovascular risk elevation over placebo. And I think you will see more and more of these kind of studies coming forward in the future.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: And there will also be studies that nobody should pay attention to. The media continues to be the media. The latest news, in quotation marks, is the New Zealand study which showed no difference in risk between Celebrex and Vioxx. Of course, it was an extremely small study that did not have the power to distinguish any difference and that's what is in the news. What's not in the news is the five published studies of a million or more patients that have been done that showed a clear differentiation in risk between Celebrex and Vioxx. So I think we really need to get this out of the media into the label and in front of doctors so that doctors and patients can decide what medicine is best for them. Enough on that, we'll take the next question.  

OPERATOR: Mara Goldstein, CIBC World Markets.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Thank you very much. I am hoping that you might just be able to give us a just little bit more granularity on the gross margin in terms of the impact of let's say currency versus volume and that 22% rise in the cost of goods sold in this quarter, just so that we can maybe more appropriately think about the next few quarters. And then secondarily in the press release, you talk about refiling the Lyrica NDA for epilepsy. Does that now have a new PDUFA date, or is this an extension of the original PDUFA date on that filing?  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Let me ask Joe Feczko to deal with the second issue while David is figuring out how to say no.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN: Alright, you can't (indiscernible) for trying.  

JOE FECZKO, MD, PRESIDENT, WORLDWIDE DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER INC.: As far as the epilepsy, it's a refiling of some additional data, but it's not going to reset a full -- a new PDUFA date. They're going to look at it in a more expeditious matter. But we're still working through the timelines on that with the data.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: David, how do you say no?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Well, Mara, I love you, but we're not going to provide that detail, other than to say they're all -- the factors I cited -- they're all material contributors to the growth and the cost of goods.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin, Morgan Stanley.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Hank, I'm going to ask this sort of a little bit differently. But on April 5, you projected that the COX drugs would accelerate in 2006. And on April 6, the FDA announced the withdrawal of Bextra. And today, you're saying that revenue guidance for the year essentially unchanged, similar to what was said on April 5th and if revenue guidance expected to accelerate in '06 and '07, so again, no change, even given the surprise announcement by the FDA. So again, if you could talk about what drives your enthusiasm with this new change. And do the expectations this year assume that patients will switch from Bextra to Celebrex?  

And just to follow up on that question, the cost of drugs will be required to have a Black Box warning. I was just wondering what sort of restrictions would be in place on DTC. And lastly, I was wondering if there are any plans to pull the submission of Parecoxib from the FDA? Thanks.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Well, a series of questions, Jami, but pretty clearly, the answer to your first question is that we have far more data on both benefit and risk with Celebrex than we do with Bextra. And we were counting on Bextra to be the engine of that growth going forward, not Bextra, which was a fairly small contributor.  

I forgot the other question.  

JOE FECZKO: One was pulling Parecoxib. No, we have no intention of pulling Parecoxib, but I didn't know how close you followed the advisory committee meeting, but the one anesthesiologist on that committee was in fact a very bullish on this compound, feeling that it offered a major advantage. A, it's a compound used in the hospital setting, it is not an opioid, it is unique in that regard and I think fills a major medical need. So, no, not only do we have no intention of pulling it, but the compound is doing okay in Europe as well.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: And on direct to consumer advertising, Pat?  

PAT KELLY, PRESIDENT - US BUSINESS, PFIZER INC: Direct to consumer advertising is allowed under current FDA regulation for products that have Black Boxes, but the Black Box has to be made quite apparent in that advertising. So we are still obviously awaiting what that Black Box looks like in the final label from Celebrex. And at that point, we will decide if and when we decide to continue direct to consumer advertising.  

On the other question relative to switching, that is already going on. There is Bextra switching into Celebrex that is occurring in the market, there's also switching from NSAIDs to Celebrex going on in the market again, which is a good thing, and all of that still awaits a label at which point we can begin to communicate with doctors about what appropriate options might exist.  

JAMI RUBIN: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Carl Seiden, UBS.  

CARL SEIDEN, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you very much. A question on international Lipitor results, if I could. I think your reported sales growth for the quarter was 26%, which was above the full year 24% rate of all the last year. And our understanding is that in the first quarter, Germany might have been down by as much a 70 or 80%. So I'm wondering if you could give us just a little bit of a more granular sense for what's going on there. Is there really that much acceleration going on someplace else, or is this a little bit of a blip in the usual noise? Do we think that's reflective of actual underlying demand in Europe for Lipitor? Thanks.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Most of these sales are in Europe. Asia contributes some, but Europe is the big part of it. So let me ask Ian Read, who's the President of that area, to comment.  

IAN READ, PRESIDENT - EUROPE/CANADA/AFRICA/MIDDLE EAST, PFIZER INC: Well, you have an exchange effect on the (indiscernible) 8%. So if you take that off, it limits it somewhat. If you look at Europe in the first quarter, Germany was down 55%. Putting that to one side, we can see an IMS (ph) data -- France accelerating 15%, the UK 20%, Canada 21% and so on. So we have very strong growth to end markets (indiscernible).  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Okay.  

OPERATOR: David Moskowitz, Friedman Billings Ramsey.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN BILLINGS RAMSEY: Yes, thank you very much. A couple of questions. The CCR 5 antagonist Maraviroc, that has entered Phase III. Can you give us a sense of timing for those Phase III trials and potentially when could we see a filing on that product? And also, with respect to the Medicare prescription drug benefit, can you talk about the impact to Pfizer on the top and bottom lines? Thanks.  

DR. JOHN LAMATTINA: On Maraviroc, we never comment on NDA filings so we will not change that policy today. Having said that, it's a compound with a very high priority. Studies are going very well, recruitments are ahead of schedule and we're very optimistic that all studies will complete expeditiously.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: And our belief on Medicare has always been, it should be a net neutral, that the loss in price because of more effective private sector managed care discounting, which will be significant, will be offset by improved compliance in a very important patient population. The media does tend to underestimate the price effect here. I think they are also ignoring the very low compliance of many seniors and how their health would benefit significantly by better compliance with important medicine like Lipitor and Norvasc and many others.  

The one wild-card in all this, and I think it's an important one, is what's called the Welcome to Medicare Physical. Because of this modernization of Medicare, anybody turning 65 will receive a physical and risk assessment. That could have a very positive short-term benefit for Pfizer and others. But of course, if significant risk factors are picked up and treated, that should result in a, certainly a benefit to individuals, but also a net long-term reduction to total cost to the payer, which in this case is the federal government. So our belief has always been neutral top and bottom line but I do believe this prescription -- this initial medical assessment could be something that's more important for patients, for the payers and the industry than any of us really realize yet.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Bert Hazlett, SunTrust.  

BERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Thanks. I won't ask you about the filing timing for Sutent then, but I will ask you -- you've had some additional competition from -- apparently from folks in the renal cell area. When should we see the renal cell data for Sutent? And on Lasofoxifene -- have we seen cardiovascular benefits for that drug? And can you describe those, if we have? Thank you.  

DR. JOHN LAMATTINA: On Sutent, I would say that -- and there will be a number of papers on this in May I believe at the ASCO meeting, so you can look and see some pretty hard data there. Everything that we've seen to date in comparison of Sutent to other compounds show Sutent to be very superior on the front and renal cell carcinoma. And also as we talked at the analyst presentation a couple of weeks ago, very strong in terms of Aglevec (ph) resistant (indiscernible) cases. I won't comment on filing, but I will say this. We recognize the medical importance of this compound and we are working extremely, extremely hard to get this one filed as soon as possible. And so, plus the results are so profound. So those first two indications, they're moving very quickly on that.  

On Lasofoxifene, we haven't really been profiling cardiovascular effects, per se. We've really been looking at the bone effects there. I don't know if you want to add anything (inaudible).  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: The current studies weren't designed to really (multiple speakers) at least the current studies that were in the file, there's larger ongoing studies that may or may not show some.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: I would just add with Sutent, we're seeing enormous excitement in oncology circles, which is a good leading indicator of the importance of this revolutionary new medicine.  

BERT HAZLETT: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Richard Evans, Sanford Bernstein.  

RICHARD EVANS, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you for taking this question. I just wanted to get some more color on Green Ribbon and programs like that. Are you sort of forward into the supply channel program something that you roll out defensively when you're under cost pressure at the state level or at the managed care level, or is this something that you plan to roll out more proactively? And if it's proactive, can you give us a sense of the scale? And then finally, could you let us know whether or not you intend to take risk on drug cost, total medical cost or medical outcomes?  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Well, Richard, I don't normally do this, but let me respond to what may have been your comment of a few weeks ago that us attempting to diversify into health care delivery would be an enormous mistake. I agree with that, it would be an enormous mistake and we're therefore not going to do that. What we are doing however is partnering, usually with our customers. The Florida Medicaid program, which also involved a number of teaching hospitals. This case, it's partnering with Humana, and it really is to underscore what I think is the game-changing development here, which is shifting from a focus on the cost of disease and therefore the high cost of treatment to the benefits of health, the long-term benefits of health and the value of the medicines that we produce. Now we're not going to become a provider, but we are going to partner with providers to demonstrate those benefits because trying to compete on the sale of pharmaceuticals in a world which is dominated by rationing and price controls is not a very good place to be. On the other hand, if you're partnered with your customer producing better health outcomes and lower cost, I think that's a winning formula for Pfizer and for those in the industry who are able to follow us into this new world. It will require some creative partnerships. We're good at that, as you know. But to your or whoever it was concerned, that this represented dangerous diversification, that is not our intention at all. And Karen or Pat, would you like to comment further.  

KAREN KATEN: No, I think that's all.  

RICHARD EVANS: Just a specific follow-up -- any intention to assume financial risk as part of these programs?  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Well, we did in the Florida program, for example. To get that jump-started, we needed to underwrite the cost savings. We actually blew those numbers away quite significantly. And Peter Brandt, you're on the call. Maybe you could add some comments there.  

PETER BRANDT, SVP, PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS FINANCE, LATIN AMERICA, PLANNING AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND PFIZER HEALTH SOLUTIONS, PFIZER: Sure. Very much to your point, Hank, as we all know, the way that health care is delivered right now is in an episodic or a silent fashion, as opposed to patient centric. And unfortunately, it's also accounted for and therefore funded in those same silos. So to get our point across, that if you take a more patient-centric view, we needed to go at risk in one or two examples to get that example out in the late public. We are willing to do that. And the Florida Medicaid program that Hank is talking about, our total guarantee over the 2.25 years of that first part of the program, $37 million, and that included the cost of the program as well as medical cost savings. And the breakout on that, we guarantee that we would put in at least $19 million in terms of the cost of the program to build the infrastructure for all of the care managers involving those teaching hospitals Hank referred and another $18 million in medical cost savings. And the total actual medical cost savings as verified by an external third party was $42 million. And again, with that 19 million that we put into the investment, that was a total of 61 million in medical cost savings and avoided costs for the State of Florida versus a guarantee of 37.  

So I think numerically, the deal worked very well for the State of Florida. I think more importantly, we had targeted 50,000 individuals in the program, we exceeded 150,000. And on any of the markers, whether they were behavioral change or more importantly overall health status improvement, things looked really good for the patients that were involved and that did have the anticipated cost savings associated with it.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: And Richard, to your or others concerns that we may be taking on excessive risk here, we are in a changing environment here. But I don't really believe in a Big Bang theory of new strategy, new business model, whatever that means. I believe in aggressive experimentation. So we're doing a lot, a lot you haven't heard about yet. But new experiments, small scale, small risk, but then if things are working, such as the Florida Healthy State Initiative, we then replicate that very rapidly, both in the United States and around the world. So our approach here is experimentation, taking some risk where we think it's prudent and necessary to get the program started, which was Florida Healthy State, and then if it works, we'll do more of it. But none of this is intended to lead to some sort of bizarre diversification into being a health care provider. It's really intended to do what we do best, which important new medicines to both improve health outcomes and we believe lower total cost.  

RICHARD EVANS: I appreciate the color.  

OPERATOR: Steve Stella (ph), SG Cowen.  

STEVE STELLA, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Thank you. I'm wondering how the number of Lipitor details changed in Q1. On the Q4 call, I think it was said that 25% of all details in 2004 were on the COXIBs, and that was more than twice the number that were put to Lipitor during the same time period. I'm wondering how much of that has shifted to Lipitor and perhaps that has accounted for Lipitor's very impressive performance in the first quarter.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Boy, that's a hard one? Pat? Pat Kelly, who heads our U.S. business.  

PAT KELLY: So the Lipitor performance in the first quarter is the result of the underlying benefit of the product as underscored by the tremendous clinical data that has been coming out over the last year supporting its early benefit in reducing cardiovascular risk. And then on a more technical detailing aspect, we have different parts of our deal force detailing the COX-2's than those that detail Lipitor. So the net effect between those two was not anything.  

STEVE STELLA: Thank you.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: And as you might imagine, there was a lot of hand-holding going on during that first quarter around an evolving COX-2 situation.  

OPERATOR: Chris Shibutani, J.P. Morgan.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Thank you very much. We've had some episodes where the Lipitor patent has come under scrutiny in different countries either expectedly or unexpected outcomes. Could you outline if in the coming months, there are particular countries in which we might expect adjudication, particularly in European countries, in the coming months?  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Jeffrey Kindler, our General Counsel.  

JEFFREY KINDLER, VICE CHAIRMAN, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER INC.: I believe the only case that is currently set for a trial in Europe is in England in July. There are challenges to the patent in other countries in Europe, but I believe that's the first one up at that, and that's set for trial in July. Other than that, I don't believe any trial settings have been made.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: And as I'm sure you are aware, the generic industry, or at least a few companies in the generic industry, has a very clear, articulated strategy of challenging every patent by every research-based company in every country. Some are quite proud of the fact they employ more lawyers than they do scientists. I would only add, this is a strategy not without risk. And maybe, Jeff, you could comment a little bit on some of our actions that are about to unfold here.  

JEFFREY KINDLER: Well, as you may be aware, we a couple of weeks ago obtained a preliminary injunction in U.S. District Court halting sales of a generic product -- a generic Accupril product. The court ordered Teva and Ranbaxy to immediately stop marketing the product, which Teva had launched last December under its own label, but with an agreement for indemnification by Ranbaxy. The court held that we were likely to prevail in our infringement suit and ordered the injunction to prevent any further sales. We intend to proceed aggressively with that case. There has been no trial setting yet, but at trial, we intend to seek recovery for lost profits and sales that we incurred as a result of them having an infringing product on the market. We believe that is going to result in very substantial damages on our behalf and we intend to seek that form out.  

So that's an example of our efforts to go after the generic companies that are infringing our products, and that was a case where they launched notwithstanding the fact that their product clearly infringed our patents and the court so held in what is actually a very unusual ruling by taking them off the market. And as I said, we had very, very substantial damages in the way of lost profits that we intend to recover from Ranbaxy.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: And we're not going to give you the amount of those damages until we make the claim at trial. But just remember that Jeff has said very substantial (multiple speakers) now.  

OPERATOR: Catherine Arnold, CSFB.  

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CSFB: Thanks very much. Could you speak to how the inventory levels have changed in the quarter in regards to product like Lipitor and Zithromax, and how that may have also impacted the sales performance in the quarter for these and squaring that with the audits where you have a product like Lipitor that increased 22% in the U.S., the audit suggesting 9% volume growth and the 5% pricing growth? And then on manufacturing, could you comment on how significant the transitional costs were associated with potentially shutting down facilities and getting products validated and consolidated in other sites?  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. David, first on manufacturing transitional costs.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: To date, they haven't been significant, but on the other hand, we haven't put a number out there for these costs as well.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: I'll ask Peter Brandt, Head of Finance for our Worldwide Pharmaceutical Business, to comment on inventory. I guess we get this question every call because others don't manage inventories as well as we have for decades now. And none of you yet have the data. You don't yet have the wholesaler inventory data. We have it. And it's always the same answer. There are changes from time to time in individual products. We manage this very carefully. First quarter end '05 was 3.9 weeks, the same period last year was 3.8 weeks and what I'm particularly pleased by in this performance is that the COX-2 inventories are fine. And you might imagine that with the initial demand being strongly up on the Vioxx recall and then down and then Bextra withdrawn, to have managed through all of that, it ended up with normal Celebrex inventories at the end of it is really quite an accomplishment. But let me ask Peter Brandt to again answer this question.  

PETER BRANDT: Okay, thanks Hank. A couple of brings on the inventory. I think as you well know and that you're picking Lipitor, and that's a very good example, there are a couple products that always seem as if they're off one way or the other, that the revenue is either higher or lower than the scrip growth in the U.S. would tend to indicate. In total, as Hank said, our months on hand or weeks on hand -- I'm sorry -- is 3.9 in '05 versus 3.8 in '04. So while Lipitor may look a little above, others are compensating on the downside. So I don't think anything in total is anything about dislocation.  

To answer your Lipitor question specifically, there are a couple of pieces to it, one of which is kind of buried or hidden at this point. You're exactly right when you look at total Rx's, up about 9%. Our number on the price increases is closer to 4% for Lipitor instead of the 5 that you quoted a moment ago. But in addition to that, there were three more shipping days that are not reflected in the scrips, but are reflected in the absolute sales in the first quarter in the U.S. That would be 62 days versus 59, so that adds another 5%. So if you're looking at that 5% plus the 4% for the price increases plus the 9% for the total Rx growth, you're very close to that 22% revenue growth in the U.S. for Lipitor.  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: And now for our final question.  

OPERATOR: Jim Kelly (ph), Goldman, Sachs.  

JIM KELLY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN, SACHS: Thank you very much. Hank, when you talk about the notion of the two Pfizers, when we look forward to 2006, once again there are a lot of products that are going to be facing patent expiree (ph). And I'm just interested, as we think about it in terms of revenue growth versus cost-cutting, which piece is most important and what stage of plant closings, as far as that goes with gross margin, what stage should we be in at that point if we're looking in the three-year plan? Is it really a third, is it very tail-loaded (ph) can it be front-end loaded?  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Well overall, the primary driver in '06 will be the cost reductions, but revenue growth will be a major contributor. In '07, it reverses. The major contributor is revenue growth assisted significantly by cost improvement. On the plant closing question, David, do you have anything to add to that?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: No. Those tend to be the sale of the activity. What you will see more likely up front is some of our purchasing initiatives and some of our initiatives in terms of G&A activity. Plant closings by nature take more time, if nothing other than the regulatory component of (indiscernible).  

DR. HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, Jim, thank you all. With that, we end our conference call. Thank you for being with us.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc | msdmh : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050503e14j0018l
  


 HD
 Q4  2004  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,113 words
   PD
19 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Dr. McKinnell you may begin.  

HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER: Hello everyone and welcome to Pfizer's fourth quarter 2004 conference call and webcast. I'm Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO. As always, we thank you for your time and for your interest. I'm joined this afternoon in New York by several of my senior colleagues from whom you will be hearing in a few minutes.  

   TD
I've spoken to you about 2004 being a year of challenges, opportunities and performance. And the fourth quarter remained true to form, reflecting each of those in abundance. One totally unforeseen and unprecedented set of challenges was presented by the tsunami in Asia on December 26th. For us, it was personal, a disaster that touched our Company, with Pfizer colleagues and their families among the missing and injured. Plus, it was also an opportunity to demonstrate once again Pfizer's compassion for and generosity to those in need. Our direct cash contributions to international and local relief organizations in the region now exceed $10 million. We are matching the more than $350,000 contributed by individual U.S. colleagues, and will do the same with overseas colleague donation drives now in progress.  

Almost immediately after the disaster, Pfizer medicines and consumer products began flowing to those in need, as part of our initial $25 million relief commitment, including antibiotics to treat 500,000 patients. And we continue to work with the United Nations to make available Pfizer skills and emergency care, public health, and logistics. Our assistance has been significant, effective, and gratefully received, and the public recognition of our Company's responsiveness and value is important to all the stakeholders we serve, including our investors.  

The quarter also saw a continuation of the significant business challenges we face. Including pricing pressures, new branded competition, generic competition resulting from the loss of exclusivity, and difficult political, legal, and regulatory environments. But it also saw us deliver another strong quarterly performance driven by our unequaled operational capabilities and our industry-leading product portfolio. And marked by continued product filings, and regulatory approvals.  

In the fourth quarter our revenues increased 7% to nearly $15 billion. Adjusted net income increased 16% to over $4.3 billion. And adjusted diluted earnings per share, of $0.58, were also up 16%. All of our businesses performed well.  

Pfizer Consumer Health care is performing ahead of expectations. Pfizer animal health continues to grow, reflecting robust results in our companion animal segment, and the introduction of new products. And in human health, we are recognizing the benefits and opportunities of our hard-won scale and global reach. We have 15 category-leading products, with clear and substantial potential for further growth. Our new product pipeline as discussed with you at our Groton meeting in November is the strongest in our history.  

And we continue to achieve important milestones in advancing the next generation of Pfizer medicines to patients. Now, I will ask David Shedlarz, our chief financial officer, to provide comments on the quarter, followed by Karen Katen, President of Pfizer Global Pharmaceuticals. David?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, CFO, PFIZER: Thank you, Hank. Pfizer achieved strong financial results in the fourth quarter of 2004, and for the full year. The Company continues to use its significant operating cash flow to make the investments in this business necessary to sustain long-term growth, as well as to pay a strong growing dividend to shareholders and to repurchase the Company's common stock.  

With the passage of the American jobs creation act of 2004, and the recently-issued guidance from the U.S. Treasury, that clarifies some of the act's provision, we are now investigating whether the Company might repatriate up to $29 billion in extraordinary dividends as defined in the act during 2005. A decision of course, is subject to management and board approval. This amount could increase by $8.6 billion, the amount of Pharmacia's historical accumulated earnings, but this is subject to further U.S. Treasury guidance. Since the U.S. Treasury has not issued all the guidance it intends to issue, the Company can only make a good faith estimate of the tax liability that would have to be recorded if these extraordinary dividends are paid.  

Accordingly, the company expects, based upon the information presently available, that it will record a tax liability based upon the 5.25 percent statutory rate in the act. However, the actual cost to the Company is dependent upon various factors that are currently being analyzed, including the passage of the pending technical corrections bill. While Pfizer's revenue and income growth will likely be tempered in the near term due to patent expirations and other factors, the Company will continue to make the investments necessary to sustain strong long-term growth, the prospects for which remain excellent.  

We will provide more specific information on Pfizer's financial expectations for 2005 and beyond, at our New York City analyst meeting planned for April 5th of this year. We remain confident that Pfizer has the organizational strength, and resilience, as well as the financial depth and flexibility to succeed in the long term.  

As usual, I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2003 annual report on form 10-K, and in our periodic reports on form 10-Q, and form 8-K.  

Also in this call, we have discussed and will be discussing financial and other information as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the Company's performance. You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on form 8-K dated January 19, 2005. This report is available on our Website, at  www.Pfizer.com  in the "For Investors" SEC filings by Pfizer section. And now, Karen Katen.  

KAREN KATEN, PRESIDENT, PFIZER PHARMACEUTICALS GROUP, PFIZER: Thank you, David. It has been an extraordinary year, and an extraordinary quarter for Pfizer. As part of the issues we've faced, we've managed to deliver strong operating results for the full year, and for the fourth quarter. Some performance highlights include 15 Pfizer medicines that lead their respective therapeutic categories, including 5 of the world's 25 top selling medicines. Ten of our products have each delivered more than $1 billion in sales this year, including Lipitor which became the world's first $10 billion pharmaceutical medicine.  

Beyond our excellent medicines and powerful organization, those results are also primarily due to our strength of scale. Scale that truly sets Pfizer apart, and let us accomplish what others cannot. Our scale enables us to combine a broad and deep portfolio with global geographic reach. We use our scale to support a large in line portfolio, invest in research extending its value, and bring the next generation of medicines to the worldwide market.  

Before we go on, let me first address what is probably top of mind for many of you listening right now. Celebrex and Bextra. Pfizer's response to recent concerns about their safety has always been driven by doing what is right for the patients. This means helping to ensure the doctors have relevant data available on Celebrex and Bextra so they can make appropriate decisions with their patients. We believe that the best setting for a thorough discussion of all available data on the risks and benefits of Celebrex and Bextra are the ongoing cardiovascular safety reviews by the EMEA and the FDA advisory hearing committee scheduled for February. We trust in these meetings that good science will prevail. In the meantime, we urge doctors to follow FDA guidance and evaluate all of the available information on treatment alternatives for pain medicines, including Cox-2 specific inhibitors and other prescription and over-the-counter nonselective NSAIDS when making treatment decisions with their patients.  

Now I would like to touch on some other product highlights starting with our cardiovascular medicines. Lipitor continues to enjoy a substantial lead in share, sales and volume to the lipid lowering market. Its ongoing success is found in a peerless track record of safety and efficacy. That enormous and growing Lipitor wall of clinical evidence is also shaping the world of cholesterol management. We continue to go where others cannot, and break new ground in clinical research about Lipitor and it's CD benefits.  

Our clinical investment has delivered good news results this year for Norvasc as well. Norvasc CD benefits were so clear that the ASCOT trial was brought to an early halt in December. Other new data from the Camelot study shows that when Norvasc was added for treatment for coronary artery disease, these patients got additional CD benefits. These included reduced risk parameters, and fewer hospitalizations. The data emerging from our clinical trial program also provide clear support for Caduet, and validate its unique benefit for treating cardiovascular risk factors concurrently.  

In our neuro science portfolio, Lyrica sales have outpaced those of any other agents for neuropathic pain or epilepsy, since first launched in the U.K. and Germany. This strong uptake can be attributed to the clear benefits that Lyrica offers. Such as outstanding efficacy across the entire dosage range, and very favorable tolerability. With it's FDA approval on December 30 for the two most common forms of neuropathic pain, diabetic peripheral neuropathy and postherpetic neuralgia, the benefits of Lyrica will soon be available to patients in the United States.  

In our allergy and respiratory portfolio, Spiriva, which we co-promote with it's discoverer, Boehringer Ingelheim is firmly established as a best-in-class product in the COPD market. It's #1 in seven countries including Germany and Australia, and is ranked #2 around the world. It is already ranked third in the United States, since launching just last June.  

Pfizer's opthalmology portfolio is building on success of Xalatan and Xalacom which continue to outpace the growth of the total glaucoma market. Xalatan recently reached $1 billion in sales. Macugen scheduled to launch in the U.S. just this month is the latest addition to our glaucoma franchise. Co promoted with our partner ITEC pharmaceutical, Macugen is a first-in-class agent for neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration.  

Our scale, combined with our resilience, as David alluded to, allows us to sustain growth while adapting to an ever-changing market environment. We're also redefining the parameters of our industry. Because we believe that Pfizer can uniquely use our scale to extend the value we already offer patients and providers into new arenas. That value, includes delivering an array of new medicines that fill unmet medical needs, expanding our geographic reach in communities and markets around the world, and finding solutions to difficult problems in our health care systems. Because of our financial strength, we can do research at a level that can help redefine standard medical practice, and also ensure a steady stream of valuable new medicines.  

We now have more than 200 novel concepts in development across multiple therapeutic areas, and we're leveraging our status as a partner of choice to expand our licensing opportunities. We're also making a concerted effort to expand Pfizer's presence in emerging markets worldwide, such as in China, one of the world's top 10 pharmaceutical markets, and among the five fastest growing markets. We've achieved double digit sales growth over the last three years, to become China's largest multi-national pharmaceutical company. We also plan to launch up to 12 new products there in the next five years.  

In the United States, we've helped address systemic health care problems by showing how we can achieve better health outcomes for vulnerable patient populations through high quality affordable care. We had a major success with the Florida: A Healthy State program and we're now exploring adapting this approach to nurturing good health with government partners in the U.K. and in Italy. Based on the case we built in Florida, Pfizer and our partner Humana, have been chosen to develop one of 10 pilot sites under the new Medicare Chronic Care Improvement program. Our three-year project in Florida called "Green Ribbon Health" will cover about 20,000 Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries with diabetes and congestive heart failure.  

Our long-standing value proposition has been to prove that our medicines cure patients and this will always be our core mission. Over the next few years, we look forward to elaborating on our expanded value propositions, and showing that our medicines can cure not only patients, but also entire health systems by reducing costs, by improving society's economic well-being, and by increasing effective prevention and treatment. Thank you. Hank, it's back to you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, Karen. Patent expirations and competition are facts of life in our business. We have a lot to do, but a lot to do it with. Our product portfolio and pipeline, our operational capabilities, and our financial depth and flexibility, provide great resilience going forward. We're focused on transiting a period of loss of exclusivity of several major products. We remain well positioned to leverage current and future opportunities while shaping our Company for a return to top rank growth after this transition. And now, your questions please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Our first question comes from Catherine Arnold, you may ask your question, and please state your company name.  

CATHERINE ARNOLD, ANALYST, CSFB: Thank you very much. It is Catherine Arnold from CSFB. I would like to ask you about the gross margin as well as dividend policy. First in regards to gross margin, there is obviously a lot of moving parts here, but could you speak to your expectations on timing for reaching peak manufacturing integration? Excuse me, integration benefits in 2005?  

And also, in the Q&A section of today's document, you referred to production variances, as being somewhat behind, somewhat a part of the quarter, and could you tell us what these -- what products were specifically behind these variances, and the impact of rebating and pricing, given the challenging pricing environment?  

And then lastly, on dividends, could you just talk to your dividend policy in times of growth deceleration, versus reacceleration, particularly in that the yield that many of your competitors shares have. Thanks very much.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, thank you, Catherine. Let me start and I will turn it over to David Shedlarz, our CFO. We target a payout ratio of earnings for our dividends, our dividend policy has little or if anything to do with our competitors' status, but we've been growing dividends for 40-some years now, and in line with earnings growth, we would expect dividends to continue that pattern.  

Gross margin is a number of moving factors. On the variance line, for example, one of the major ones is foreign exchange. But let me ask David to try to untangle that for you a little bit.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: First, dealing with the gross margins, any particular quarter can offer a number of unusual factors, and the fourth quarter of this year did, and one of the things we tried to highlight that really mix of product lines did not drive the increase, and the cost of goods as a percent of revenues, it really was these, what we call nonstandard request items and the various changes in the production volume of the Company that kind of drive that in part, as well as a write-off of inventory, for some minor product lines. And so this doesn't necessarily point to anything other than continuing to keep our production and inventory in line where we think it is appropriate, and it does have some implications in terms of the cost of goods line, in any particular quarter.  

As it relates to the dividends, as you know, we announced a first quarter increase in dividends by some 12%. That we can have continue to grow dividends at a pretty significant rate over an extended timeframe, and I think the first quarter continues to be indicative of following that practice.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. David Moskowitz, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: Thanks, it is Friedman Billings Ramsey. Good afternoon. Could you just go back over the gross margin answer once again and talk about the write-off items and could you quantify those for us if you would? And also, you guys talked about increasing the synergies from Pharmacia in 2006. I think you went up to 600 million. Could you talk about where those synergies are coming from? And then with Cox-2 inhibitors seemingly decreasing, in the prescription volumes, can you talk about any other restructuring, streamlining that you may have on tap besides the Pharmacia synergies. Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: David, try the margin again.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah, again, the margins being impacted by the change in production volume during the course of the recent past. That leads to certain production variances which need to get recorded in the cost of goods. I do not have a precise number for you in terms of the inventory write-offs related to minor product lines.  

In terms of the synergies, we did put out a number, an estimate for 2005 of $4.2 billion. As you point out, that is some $600 million higher than what we achieved in 2004. And it continues to come from a broad array of opportunities the Company is pursuing, including an increasing relative contribution from the manufacturing part of our operation. We always assume that that would be the tail to the integration activities just because of the high regulatory content to make any major changes in the manufacturing network.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And on the Cox-2 and restructuring question, I don't think we will have a good sense of what the year is likely to hold for at least another month. We need another two to four weeks of prescription numbers to see what is actually happening in the marketplace. And probably most importantly of all, we need the FDA review in mid February, which then allows us to focus on the real data around both Celebrex and Bextra, and to see if we can't start to increase -- increase market share numbers. We will be discussing with you on April 5 what our expectations for the year are, both in terms of revenue and cost structure, and you will hear the answer to that question on April 5th.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ: I just have one follow-up question. On Exubera.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Go ahead.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ: Yes, thanks. Have you submitted that application to the FDA for review in the U.S. as of yet?  

HANK MCKINNELL: (Joe Fetchco), please.  

JOE FECZKO, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL REGULATORY AND DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: The filing is continuing. We're working on it and that's all we'll say right now, we are working on it. It's going well.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Making good progress.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ: Okay. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Barbara Ryan, you may ask your question, and please state your company name.  

BARBARA RYAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Okay. Now, back to the gross margin question. [ Laughter ] I don't want to beat a dead horse here but maybe, David, in your comments, you did state that there was an inventory write-off and if we're trying to look at, you know, sort of what is an ongoing business effect and what is maybe a one-time effect in the gross margin, can you help us with just that specific aspect of it?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah, well the inventory write-offs are clearly a one-time event and that's a good piece of it. The production volumes are going to change continually over time.  

BARBARA RYAN: Right.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Depending on where we want inventories to be and where sales will be. So you are going to see those quarterly anomalies on an ongoing basis, whether they're favorable or unfavorable, and during the course of the year they've been both. Right.  

BARBARA RYAN: But the inventory charge --  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: I don't have the inventory charge off the top of my head.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Can somebody get that for us? It is obviously raising some issues. It is not a material number.  

BARBARA RYAN: Thank you very much. I appreciate it.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Okay.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Now, nobody remembers the number. It is that material.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Timothy Anderson, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

TIMOTHY ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Prudential Equity Group. A couple of questions. Can you shed any light on restructuring efforts? I hear you guys might be contemplating and when we might hear more about this, and I'm wondering if that is going to be a significant departure from prior strategy, or if this is just going to be more tweaks around the margins?  

And then second question, relates to Celebrex language and the press release in question 28, that seems to suggest there has been additional negative cardiovascular signals seen in trials outside of just the APC trial, and I'm wondering if you can say more about this. Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, to characterize the answer to that question, as an additional Celebrex signal has it quite wrong. I will ask Joe Fetchco in a minute, who heads our Medical and Regulatory and development efforts around the world to comment on that.  

With respect to restructuring we have a long history of prudent appropriate management of our business, and you will hear all that April 5. Joe, could you comment on Celebrex safety?  

JOE FECZKO: Yeah, that question is not describing a new signal or a new cardiovascular signal. What we have when we look at the Celebrex data, we look at composite cardiovascular end points, these include stroke, myocardial infarctions, sudden death, et cetera and whenever we look at composite cardiovascular events in patients treated with Celebrex, there is no difference in comparable to placebo or non-selective NSAIDs.  

What we're alluding to in that question, is that in certain studies, some people who have looked at certain studies will point out and look at increased, numerically increased events of one type, without talking about a decrease of another type. So for instance some of our critics have looked at individual studies and said there is a numerical increase in MI without talking about the numerical decrease in stroke. There is no statistical significant difference in either one, we're not saying we're protective in stroke, or causing more myocardial infarctions. That's what we're talking about. There's been a lot of people dissecting these studies and trying to go into individual pieces of data.  

All of these data have been presented to regulatory bodies. These data have been presented at various meeting. Or published. And they've all been parts of ongoing published med analyses. So there is nothing new. There is no new signal here that we're describing.  

TIMOTHY ANDERSON: Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And Tim, the bottom line here is, this is going to be fully explored at the FDA advisory panel hearing in mid April. Sorry, mid February. And we remain very confident in the advice the FDA and us are giving, which is that physicians treating individual patients should take into account all of the data, both safety and toleration and risk, with Celebrex and the traditional nonselective NSAIDs and we're convinced that Celebrex is the appropriate option for millions of patients. So we hopefully will get through some of the confusion here by the FDA, the FDA review in February.  

TIMOTHY ANDERSON: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. C.J. Sylvester you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

C.J. SYLVESTER, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Hi, thanks. Banc of America. Just a couple of questions. One, in page 32 of your release today, you talk about certain significant items. Is this the first time you've mentioned the issue related to a large restructuring that would be considered a nonrecurring item, just that's the first question, just the clarity on that one.  

And secondly, if we look at, you know, U.S. trends of your key brand, with the exception of Lipitor and Norvasc, all the key products are flat to down. Is there something temporal in nature, or is this something in terms of sales force disruption that's going on, that's making it appear that a lot of the key brands here are stagnating?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah, the characterization of certain significant items is what it has been all along. It is a clarification in terms of understanding the difference between adjusted income and GAAP. You have a pretty rich description of exactly what those items are in the back of the statement of income of the Company in the press release. But nothing has changed in that regard.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And actually, the growth of individual products, I certainly wouldn't call them stagnating. We've got a number of products that are growing solidly into double digit levels. Would you comment on some of those, Karen? We don't at all see a stagnation and certainly not in sales force effort, which by the way in the 10th year in a row was recognized as the most valued sales force in the industry by physicians. Karen on some of the product trends?  

KAREN KATEN: As you stated, Lipitor of course is up 23%. Celebrex is up 24. Bextra at 57. And Zyvox, 73%. Camptosar, 29. Xalatan, Xalacom 23, and -- but of course, we do have declining sales in Neurontin, post patent expiration, Diflucan also, and Zithromax is down because of a slow respiratory season. So really actually, a pretty strong performance, if you think about it.  

C.J. SYLVESTER: From a revenue standpoint, yes, but from a volume standpoint in the U.S. I'm just looking at the 4 Q trends, and there is a disparity between the volume and the revenue number.  

KAREN KATEN: Volume meaning scripts?  

C.J. SYLVESTER: Correct.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I don't think so.  

KAREN KATEN: No.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Peter, any discrepancies there?  

PETER BRANDT, SVP, FINANCE, PLANNING, VP, PFIZER INC,, PFIZER: Not really. If you take a look at the TRX and then you add on top a couple percentage points for the price impact due to price increases taken earlier in the year, you come very close, usually within 1 or 2 percentage points of the quarterly revenue growth. Certainly that occurs too if you take a look at that on a full year basis.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And we have a long record of managing inventories within the industry more accurately than anybody. So we certainly don't see any difference in sales and prescription numbers. There is always going to be some minor variation month to month, but nothing that is anywhere near material.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Carl Seiden . You may ask your question and please state your company name.  

CARL SEIDEN, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks very much. I'm from UBS. Two questions, if I could, Hank, on SG&A. One pretty specific, and one much more strategic. On the specific side, if we look at what IMS captures in terms of their audited Pfizer details, last year, 25% of all of your details were on the Cox-2 inhibitors, which was more than double what they recorded for Lipitor. Going forward, assuming the Cox-2s are still promotable, you have no competition, obviously there is an education task, but can you give us some kind of sense for what kind of Cox-2 detailing is going on right now, and where that might be going?  

And I guess more strategically, if we looked at Pfizer's SG&A as a percent of sales, it is very, very close to the entire industry average, despite your meaningfully higher size, and statistically the better productivity of your sales force. Should investors think about some kind of efficiencies of scale going forward on the SG&A line? Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Let me ask Pat Kelly, who heads our U.S. business to comment on your question on details. And I will then come back on the more strategic issue.  

PAT KELLY: So our U.S. representatives are quite busy, even as we speak, talking to physicians all over the country about Celebrex and Bextra, our two Cox-2 products. As they carry out the agreed upon approach, with the FDA, about describing to those physicians that there are alternatives available, including Celebrex and Bextra, for the treatment of arthritis pain and inflammation. So I guess I would characterize our field force as extraordinarily busy right now on the Cox-2s and we would expect that they will continue to be busy, pending any FDA advisory committee decision for some time to come.  

And in general, our folks, as Hank has already alluded to, are already expressed to be the most valued sales force in the U.S. industry. I would also point out on that same audited detail basis, they're the most productive field force in the industry on calls per rep, on details per call, on detailed minutes per call, any term you want to look at, it is the best in the industry, and we continue to use it as best we can.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And Carl, I don't think you said it, but, you know, the question about a malaise in the sales force is dead wrong. We have a very successful group that is approaching this year with maybe even more enthusiasm than we have ever seen. It is a very motivated charged-up group. On the more strategic issue, around spending, we really are focused on communicating risks and benefits of our products to physicians, so that they can use our drugs most appropriately so that patients benefit.  

And it really comes down to one question, that doctors ask all around the world. The question is, what is new? And if you don't have an answer to that question, you probably don't need a very big sales force. If you don't have much that is new.  

In our case, with 20 new products being filed and the five years ending 2006, and maybe most importantly, with the avalanche of really favorable new clinical data we've seen this year, around our leading products, we have a lot to say. So I think field force size has a great deal to do with what it is you have to say, and while we always look at ways to improve the capability and structure of our sales force, I think we've got plenty to do over the next three to five years which is kind of our strategic horizon, and the field force is going to be a critical element in that promotional mix.  

CARL SEIDEN: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. David Risinger you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

DAVID RISINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks very much. From Merrill Lynch. My first question is with respect to the European Lipitor patent litigation, if you could please provide an overview of that litigation, including key developments, and timing, to expect in 2005?  

And my second question is, I guess going back to that gross margin issue that everyone keeps raising, just very simply, was the explanation of the weak gross margin meant to suggest that the reported gross margin in the fourth quarter was abnormally low, such that with some of those anomalies excluded, we should be looking for a higher gross margin in the first quarter of '05. I know that you're not providing guidance, but I just wanted to clarify your explanation in terms of that being abnormally low. Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, let me ask Jeff Kindler, our General Counsel to comment on the European Lipitor patent litigation. And then that will give David time to try to figure out how to answer your question without telling you what we're going to tell you on April 5.  

JEFF KINDLER, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER: Thank you, Hank. David, first, let me just say, as Hank said earlier, the patent challenges are a way of life for us these days, and just about every major product is subject to some challenge by a generic, and the Lipitor patent is being challenged pretty much all over the world. (Grand Baxy) is challenging our Lipitor patents in Canada and several western European countries. The only one, the only country in which a trial has actually been scheduled is the United Kingdom, where there is a trial scheduled for July of this year. We expect a trial to be set in Ireland for later this year, or early next year. In addition, generics have launched Lipitor copies in various countries in Eastern Europe, South America, the Middle East, and Asia. In many of those countries, there is no process like the Hatch Waxman act, so the generics launch and then we sue to have them taken off the market, and we're doing so in those countries, and we have a pretty good track record in patent litigation, as you know.  

In addition, the Canadian generic manufacturer (Apotext), has requested that we grant it a license to make and sell generic Lipitor, invoking certain compulsory licensing provisions under Canadian law. We've politely declined their request that we license Lipitor to them. And we therefore expect them to commence an action at some point. We believe we should defeat any action like that, because we have consistently met the needs of Canadian patients for this product since it was introduced in Canada in 1997, and we sell it in that country under the terms that are fully compliant with the Canadian law. But that is another -- another challenge to the patent in Canada. So that kind of gives you the world tour of Lipitor litigation.  

DAVID RISINGER: Thank you.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: David, in answer to your question, as I highlighted the inventory write-offs are one-time events. They are not the bigger contributor to the reduction in gross margin in the fourth quarter. It is really the production volume of the Company, which changes quarter to quarter, depending upon sales, forecasts, and inventory holding levels.  

As Hank has highlighted, as we get into the forecast and we will expect to share it with you on April 5th, that will be one of the elements, obviously, we're taking a look at in terms of the performance of the Company, and it is subject to the sales considerations, the inventory considerations, primarily. So that's something that I would say to you, the bigger piece of this relates to the variability of production volume during the course of the quarter. In order to smooth that out, you probably want to stare closely at the full year results rather than staring at any individual quarter.  

HANK MCKINNELL: David, is the confusion here that some are comparing the fourth quarter of this year with the fourth quarter of last year? Which was polluted with purchase accounting?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: No, it is the -- on the adjusted basis, the level of gross margins is about 200 basis points lower in the fourth quarter than it was in the first three quarters. I think that's the thing you're highlighting, David. And again, the bigger piece of that is the seasonality of production variances, due to volume considerations, and for that reason, you probably want to take a look at the number for the full year, rather than the individual quarter.  

DAVID RISINGER: And do think -- Foreign exchange is part of that?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Foreign exchange was not a major contributor in the fourth quarter.  

DAVID RISINGER: Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Mario Courso you may ask your question, and please state your company name.  

MARIO COURSO, ANALYST, EQUITY RESEARCH PARTNERS: Equity Research Partners. Two questions. One with regard to Lipitor and the TNT study, is Pfizer planning on releasing those results at the American College of Cardiology? And then number two, with the comment in the press release on the repatriation of funds, potentially happening this year, you know, should we look at that as perhaps an unprecedented source for a stock buyback program or an increased stock buyback program going forward, given some of the growth challenges over the next couple of years? Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: The second part of that is easy, under the regulations issued, you cannot use the funds brought back for repurchase of stock. We plan to use those funds to strengthen operations to pay for research, to strengthen our balance sheet. So separate from that, there could very well be stock buyback, but the two -- the two are not related, and before we publish TNT result, I guess, Joe, we need the results, could you --  

JOE FECZKO: TNT is event-driven and the determination about when the study will terminate and when we get the report out is really up to the steering committee and the DSMV associated with it, so this is not a time frame associated with it as much as it is event-driven.  

HANK MCKINNELL: But I guess hopefully soon would be the answer.  

JOE FECZKO: Yeah.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yeah. We can't pin a specific date on it but hopefully soon. And that, as you know, is a very important study, and we're very optimistic. That will be further support for the benefits of further Lipitor reduction with Lipitor or Caduet.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Jami Rubin, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morgan Stanley. Thank you. Just going back to Celebrex and Bextra, obviously were sales were quite strong in the fourth quarter, not indicative of future performance. Was there anything you mentioned that with other major products there were no unusual wholesaler stocking issues, but just given all the noise, both positive and negative in the quarter for Celebrex and Bextra following the Vioxx withdrawal, were there any unusual stocking issues going into the fourth quarter that could create a double whammy, a double negative whammy in the fourth quarter -- or rather the first quarter of '05, as that is brought down and revenues drop down to reflect the current prescription environment for those drugs? That's my first question.  

And second question relates to manufacturing efficiencies. I think Hank, in the past, you've talked about opportunities to shut down plants from the previous mergers. Just wondering where you were with that, and to what extent that will be a variable in modeling gross margins for '05. Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, on Celebrex itself, it was a very interesting quarter, to say the least. We picked up significant scripts following the Vioxx withdrawal. And then not only did we lose share at the end of the quarter, but the overall market declined. So it was a turbulent period for sure. Let me ask Peter Brant if there was -- at the end of the year, any significant inventory changes, but it was, you know, we're being whip sawed on the upside, rushing to meet demand, and then trying to pull down sales at the end of the quarter to bring inventories back in line. Peter?  

PETER BRANDT: We worked very closely with the major wholesalers in the U.S. to make sure that they understood exactly what you mentioned, what was happening with prescription trends at that point in time. As you know, many of the wholesalers, they placed their orders based on historical models, so it was important to work closely with the wholesalers to make sure they fully understood what was happening at that point in time with the prescription trends. Once they understood that, they began to pull back on their orders as well. So while there may be a very slight increase over normal levels in inventory in both Celebrex and Bextra, nothing material at this point.  

HANK MCKINNELL: On the manufacturing restructuring, that continues. As you -- as I'm sure many of you know, moving production requires reregistration, in the new plant we are switching to. So as we shut down plants, or restructure our manufacturing operations, there is a period of reregistration. We are well along on that. And you can expect continuing -- continuing plant closures as we rationalize both the manufacturing and the distribution system. We're well into that process. We're down close to 20 plants already. And that process will continue. And David, the impact of that on gross margin?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah, well that obviously will have a favorable impact on gross margin, but I ask you to be patient, because a lot of factors will have an impact on gross margin, and that's the process we're going through in terms of characterizing 2005, but Jami, that clearly is one that is on the the positive side of the equation  

JAMI RUBIN: Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: We're not answering these questions Jami with April 5 as the answer, but we need to know before you know, and we won't really have a good fix on production volumes next year until we have a better sense of where the Cox-2 products are going.  

JAMI RUBIN: Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Steve Scala, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, SG COWEN & CO.: SG Cowen and Company. Thank you. I have two product-related questions. First, on Lyrica, can you update us on the status of the deliberation with the DEA regarding scheduling, and is this a scenario where scheduling could be lifted over time, perhaps via additional studies which you might carry out?  

And the second question on Exubera, can you update us on the status of the agreement with Sanofi regarding the change of control provision and how Pfizer is leaning relative to its various options?  

HANK MCKINNELL: On Exubera let me deal with that one first, Steve. We are in negotiations to try to settle this matter with our preferred option being the one we're making good progress on. So hopefully there is good news there shortly. The litigation is continuing, but that will not be the critical factor here I'm sure. We do not have a DEA decision. If we did, we would have announced it. We are, what, three to four weeks away? Is that --  

JOE FECZKO: Unclear.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Impossible to say. But hopefully fairly soon here. And the chances of lifting that later --  

JOE FECZKO: We do plan on, it's Joe Fesco, we do plan on doing work post approval to come back to the Agency to try to get the scheduling lifted.  

HANK MCKINNELL: At the level of scheduling we're anticipating here, it should not have a significant impact on our opportunity here. It is large in both options.  

STEVE SCALA: Hank, can you tell us what your preferred option is with Exubera?  

HANK MCKINNELL: As soon as we have it, we will tell you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Tony Butler, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Lehman Brothers. Thank you. Hank, a little more of a strategic question here, it really relates to comments which are continuously made about scale. And as we enter a new area with respect to Medicare modernization, one thinks about the guidelines that have been put forth from USP, suggesting maybe only two drugs per category, and I'm curious how either Pfizer may be able to leverage their scale and more importantly how you think about your product portfolio relative to that constraint, because I think we can certainly see that pricing can be much more of an issue in '06 and beyond, more so than some of the comments we've been thinking about for '05. Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, that is the perfect strategic question. Karen has mentioned already the Green Ribbon initiative in Florida, which we are one of nine I think, of these pilots HHS is running, and obviously in this pilot, we're going to show the benefit to health outcomes, and cost of open access to modern medicines. So that will be a formulary which provides patients access to the medicines that their doctors think are best for them.  

The other approach, kind of the other approach to health care costs are very restrictive formularies, essentially rationing and price controls. And the battle is going to be for those two ideas. Do we want to live in a world with rationing of access to care, access to medicine, and government price controls? Or do we want to live in a world where doctors and patients are improving health, improving health outcomes, and by the way bringing down costs. We demonstrated already very convincingly in the Florida Healthy State initiative that open access to medicine, focusing on the patient, emphasizing health over sickness, produces benefits both for the patient and the payer. So this is a critically important experiment that we're engaged in. We're not going to see results from that for one to two years. But we will be promoting the preliminary results as soon as we get our hands on them.  

The real issue around formularies is just how open the access is. And obviously, we and others in the industry believe that patients should have access to the medicines they need, and it is broader than just two drugs per category. It has to do with rights of appeal and ways that patients can get access to the medicines they truly need. But we're -- you know, with 15 category leading products, we're pretty confident that our drugs will be in those categories. As they are with managed care today.  

So I don't think given that this is a private sector delivered system, with formularies set by the private sector managed care plans we're already dealing with, that it will be materially different from what we're experiencing right now. Pat, Pat Kelly, do you have anything to add to that?  

PAT KELLY: No, I think again, that you've put it well, that again, this is a market that although Medicare modernization has not yet begun, given it is a private market delivery system, it is one we're quite familiar with, and quite successful in. In terms of we have the industry's leading access on those same private formularies that will be used to support the Medicare drug benefit. And we're continuing negotiation with those private drug plan sponsors to ensure that our products are still quite well represented, so we believe that again there will not be material change to our industry-leading position.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And just as our sales force is recognized as the most valued by prescribing physicians, our managed care organization has been recognized this year by the managed care medical directors, the people we interact with on formularies, as their most valued partner, so we go into this with a lot of strengths in addition to our scale. Good question, Tony, that's right on.  

TONY BUTLER: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Chris Shibutani you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Thank you. J.P. Morgan. Two questions, if I may. One on R&D and a second on the emerging markets comments. With R&D, at our recent conference, we had some leading directors of the R&D organizations from some of your competitors describe how the costs have really been spiraling, particularly for the development and clinical trials phases, double digit increases pushing 20% year-over-year increases in the cost of conducting some of these trials. As we think about the level of spending that I think many of us are projecting, what we'll need to give, if the clinical trials are increasing at this pace, are there -- is there room for you to be able to still keep the level of total spending growth down?  

And my follow-up question on China, I was interested that were approaching this as an emerging market, certainly from the population and the volume, it is understandable but two key questions there, pricing and intellectual property, I know you've run into some problems with Viagra and on pricing you mentioned 12 new products you're launching, are these products that we're yet to see in our markets or are these mature products that simply are not available in those countries? Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Your question on R&D costs is exactly right. Medicines are expensive because we haven't figured out a way to make them faster and cheaper. The cost of development is going up dramatically. And let me ask John LaMattina, President of Global Research and Development, to comment on what we're doing in this regard.  

JOHN LAMATTINA, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: So it is a good question. For us, there is really a two-fold part to this because not only are costs going up because there is a whole lot more we have to do in putting our filings together in terms of dramatically showing safety improvements and differentiating these compounds, ahead of existing therapy, at filing and not post filing, so you have that aspect, plus in our case, we have a pipeline that is far larger than ever before, and continues to grow. So that is a good thing.  

Paying for it all, I think, going forward is going to be an issue for us. But certainly we're looking at improving costs. We're upgrading a lot of the ways we're doing things. We're finding ways to electronically do a lot of things that were done by paper previously, and there are a lot of places where we think we can save on costs and we're doing just that. But it is a struggle we have going forward. Which is a nice problem to have. And that is an awful lot of compounds to do an awful lot of work on.  

HANK MCKINNELL: There are two other answers to this question. One a short term and a much more important one, long term. To come back to Tony Butler's comment on scale, this helps us here enormously. Not only do we have all the contract research organizations returning our phone calls, but we've usually worked with them very recently on a product in a similar therapeutic area, so we're clearly able to do this faster, better and cheaper than anybody else in the industry.  

And the ultimate answer to this question is not so much the cost of our successes but the cost of our failures. And Dr. John LaMattina and the research organization has an initiative well under way, which promises to double the productivity of our research organization. And that really is the ultimate answer to cost. We fail about 98% of the time. Somewhat amazingly, if we manage to fail 96% of the time, we would double our productivity, so that is a big part of the answer to this question. On China and pricing, Karen, do you want to take that on?  

CHRIS SHIBUTANI: Pricing and intellectual property, actually.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes, that is a good one, too.  

KAREN KATEN: We have Lloyd Smith here who can answer that specific question, but we are quite excited about the opportunity in China, not just because of the demographics but because of the early support we've gotten from the government, on patent protection. Viagra notwithstanding. And so each product will kind of be its own case, but we feel very positively about our ability to succeed in that market. Lloyd, you want to add anything about the 12 products?  

LLOYD SMITH, PFIZER: Yes, we're going to the products, the registration process in China is a little slower than much of the rest of the world. It is some two to three years time. So these are a combination of what would be in lines in our other marks, plus a range of new products, which is slightly behind the rest of the world.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And with that question, we conclude today's conference call. Thank you for being with us.  

KAREN KATEN: Thank you. Thank you, Lloyd.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050202e11j00105
  


 HD
 Q3  2004  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,523 words
   PD
20 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PFIZER, INC.: Hello, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's third quarter 2004 conference call and web site. I'm Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO of Pfizer. I'm joined this afternoon by many of my colleagues in New York from whom you will be hearing during this conference call.  

   TD
KAREN KATEN, PRESIDENT OF PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER, INC.: I'm speaking to you today from Kampala, the capitol of Uganda, where we are dedicating the Infectious Diseases Institute at McKary University Medical School. Pfizer contributed the time, talent, and money to build this modern teaching hospital, the first in Uganda in 35 years. Our non-governmental organizational partners will staff and operate it, helping Africa's medical provisions to learn the latest thinking on HIV/AIDS care and prevention. The hundreds of medical professionals to be trained here each year will go on to train thousands more, and those thousands will treat millions of patients and prevent millions of new infections. This effort reflects our drive to improve access to medicines worldwide. And it demonstrates, once again, that when it comes to healthcare, Pfizer is definitely part of the solution. Such recognition of Pfizer's role and the value -- and its value is important for all the stakeholders we serve, including our investors. And it's especially important in this time of significant business challenges, including continuing pricing pressures, new branded competition, generic competition resulting from the loss of patent exclusivity and difficult political, legal, and regulatory environments. Our financial results for the third quarter reflect these challenges, but they also reflect our fundamental strength and resilience.  

We've once again delivered strong earnings performance. Adjusted net income for the quarter increased 13% to over $4 billion. And adjusted diluted earnings per share at 55 cents was up 15%. All the Pfizer's businesses performed well. Pfizer Consumer Healthcare is performing ahead of expectations. Pfizer Animal Health continues to grow quickly driven by robust performance in its companion animal segment and the introduction of new products.  

In human healthcare, we have 13 category leading products with clear and substantial potential for further growth. Our new product pipeline is the strongest in our history and we expect to submit 20 major U.S. regulatory filings during the five-year period ending in 2006. We also continue to achieve important milestones in advancing the next generation of Pfizer medicines to patients.  

I'll now ask Karen Katen, President of Pfizer Global Pharmaceuticals to provide her perspective on the quarter to be followed by comments from our Chief Financial Officer, David Shedlarz.  

Karen. Thank you, Hank.  

In the third quarter and throughout the year, Pfizer's pharmaceutical business has performed, once again, in a challenging global environment. Our goals are on target, our portfolio is strong, the environment is tough, but we're tougher. We're attending to both the top line and the bottom line with discipline.  

Year-to-date revenue growth in human pharmaceuticals has been driven largely by the strong global growth of Lipitor up 15%, Neurontin up 17%, Zoloft up 8%, Norvasc up 4%, Geodon up 31%, VFEND up 47% and Relpax up 102%. As well as several key products added in the Pharmacia acquisition, Celebrex, Bextra, Balitan, Detrol and Zyvox. Specifically in the third quarter, revenue growth was led by Lipitor up 11%, Celebrex up 14%, Bextra up 37%, Neurontin up 10%, and Zyvox up 97%. These and other strong product performances offset some declines in other products during the quarter.  

13 Pfizer medicines lead the respective therapeutic categories and 6 of the world's 25 top-selling medicines are marketed by Pfizer. 5 of our products have delivered more than $2 billion in sales so far this year, while 2 others have delivered 1 billion or more each, and Zyrtec has approached $1 billion in sales in the U.S. alone so far in 2004.  

In addition to managing our existing portfolio, we grew our pharmaceutical business during the third quarter with new launches, new indications and newly completed clinical trials. I'll get to some highlights in a moment.  

But first let me touch on product highlights. In the third quarter and throughout this year, we've managed changing circumstances to maintain category leadership for products in key therapeutic areas. Lipitor, for example. Despite the launches of new competitors, Lipitor is still the world's top-selling medicine with revenues of $2.74 billion in the third quarter of 2004 alone, up 11% over the comparable period last year. And it has sustained strong double-digit growth over recent months.  

In the United States, Lipitor showed 10% growth in new prescriptions, while maintaining more than a 43% share of total cholesterol reduction prescription volume this year through September, that is. It showed similar growth in other markets around the world. One reason for this impressive growth, off an existing huge base, is a consistent wall of new clinical data we're building for this important product, Lipitor. New data showing how safe and effective this remarkable medicine is for so many people, new data regarding its mortality benefits, new data showing the benefits of using Lipitor early, new data that's led to a new indication for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease and new label revisions to reflect that. New data so strong that it's long support to the new NCEP treatment guidelines for hyperlipidemia.  

Zoloft is another example of a medicine that's faced recent challenges, yet remains the world's most prescribed antidepressant up 8% on a year-to-date basis to $2.4 billion. Zoloft has continued to -- continued to grow in spite of media and government focus on the use of antidepressants in children and adolescents.  

On Friday, this attention came to a head when the FDA issued a recommendation that all antidepressant labels include a black box warning regarding suicidal thoughts and behaviors in young patients, a warning that will emphasize the need for doctors to closely monitor these patients and to balance risk with clinical need. We at Pfizer continue to believe that physicians and patients must communicate more and work together to determine the best course of treatment of any kind. That's a bedrock of our philosophy.  

We also support the FDA's efforts to responsibly address the serious medical issue of depression and we'd like to point out that it's very serious indeed. Depression is responsible for more than a half million suicide attempts by children and adolescents every year. Because adolescent suicide is clearly such an urgent public health issue, we cannot lose sight of the importance of treating depression. We support the position of the American Psychiatric Association that, quote, Antidepressants save lives, end quote, and that, quote, The biggest stress to a depressed child's well-being is to receive no care at all, end quote.  

Now, it's important to remember that Zoloft is not approved for pediatric depression, but we've certainly studied the issue. And in fact, there were no suicides at all in Zoloft's pediatric clinical program. The bottom line is that we're confident in the proven safety and efficacy of Zoloft to treat millions of patients with mood and anxiety disorders.  

Viagra has also responded well to recent market challenges. This medicine was the object of intense new competition, as you all know, and is one of the world's most recognized pharmaceutical brands. Viagra, today, commands more than a 70% worldwide dollar market share in its therapeutic category according to our latest numbers. Meanwhile, its two new major competitors have plateaued. Our market research and a wealth of clinical studies show that patients either stay with Viagra or return to it because it is safe, effective, and delivers what patients and their partners want.  

Finally, our COX-2-specific inhibitor medicines are responding to new challenges as well. Both Celebrex and Bextra continue to perform well by exceeding year-to-date sales projections, and we fully expect this trend to continue as more doctors and patients consider them as effective, appropriate treatment alternatives. No other prescription medicine is as widely used for arthritis and pain relief as is Celebrex, thanks to its outstanding efficacy, long-term safety profile and broad range of use.  

In a recent FDA-sponsored analysis of 1.4 million patients and in additional clinical studies where patients have been treated for up to four years, patients using Celebrex showed no increased risk of cardiac events. This past Monday, we announced response from a major clinical study to further evaluate the potential cardiovascular benefit of Celebrex in osteoarthritis patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease. This new global study will begin in early '05 and will further explore evidence that certain properties of Celebrex may improve vascular function in patients with established coronary artery disease.  

You may also recall a previous discussion we've had about capsule endoscopy, a new technology we've used to further explore the COX-2 inhibitor benefit in the GI tract. This is essentially, as you may recall, a camera in a capsule that patients swallow and the capsule takes pictures as it travels through the GI tract.  

Just yesterday we released the results of a study using this new technology. It studied Celebrex versus a combination of the commonly taken pain reliever Ibuprofen with the popular acid reducer, Ametrosol. Results were reported yesterday at the American College of Rheumatology in San Antonio and, once again, Celebrex proved that its GI safety was comparable to placebo, while the widely used Ibuprofen, Ametrosol combination showed significant small bowel damage. You could see, actually, in the pictures where it showed up as breaks in the lining of the digestive tract.  

And now a word about our other COX-2, Bextra. Its clinical efficacy has been well established by studies in more than 11,000 patients, and it's used by more than approximately 10 million patients around the world. It is indicated for osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and primary dysmenorrhea. Its efficacy is also apparent in osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis players, which makes it a valuable therapeutic option for tough-to-treat patients.  

Available clinical evidence for Bextra, based on nearly 8,000 patients, suggest no increased risk of cardiovascular thrombolic events in patients with OA and RA. We made this an additional information about the safety profile of Bextra available to healthcare professionals just last week.  

I mentioned that our portfolio has benefited from recent new clinical evidence. For instance, from the Ascot and the CARDS trial, which contributed to a new labeling and new indications for Lipitor. These findings have also supported the effectiveness of other Pfizer medicines, specifically Caduet. Recent Pfizer entries are also contributing with their performance, notably Geodon, Spiriva and Relpax. We fully expect Caduet and Intra to continue to grow as their power to help patients in new ways and their unique therapeutic value become more widely known, and as further clinical evidence underscores their very apparent value.  

Finally, let me mention our licensing activities, always a strength for our great company. In early October, for example, we acquired Broad and Dry Tricanto, also known as Camptosar. Camptosar is a first-line treatment for advanced colon cancer and is central to the survival of patients suffering from this disease. This acquisition is a natural fit with our oncology portfolio, which is strong and getting stronger, with products from Pharmacia and, of course, our own promising compounds in our pipeline. Less than a decade ago, the average survival time for patients with this cancer was about nine months. Today, thanks to Camptosar-based regimens, that's been extended, on average, to more than 20 months.  

Beyond maximizing our existing portfolio and launching new medicines and indications in the third quarter and throughout the year, we're also protecting our portfolio against patent challenges. These are particularly significant now, as you know, and will continue to be as several patents on key medicines will expire in upcoming years. Our patent protection strategies are straightforward and very appropriate. First, we'll diligently defend our patents before loss of exclusivity, as we did recently with Viagra in China. We'll defend our patents after loss of exclusivity too through Green Stone, our generic subsidiary acquired with Pharmacia, as we did with Phlebiside XL and Fluconosol this past year. Our strategies were brought to bear less than two weeks ago when we launched generic Gabotenton through our Green Stone subsidiary in a swift response to the at-risk launch of generic versions of Neurontin by generic manufacturers.  

I'd like to close with a quick thought about a broader future scope for human health at Pfizer. Looking beyond our portfolio of leading medicines, we have an expanded vision of our role in serving the public's health needs more fully. Not just through cheating disease, but maybe more importantly, through promoting health. This includes advocating education, early intervention, compliance with treatment guidelines and better dialogue among doctors, patients, and families. We're also addressing the issues of access and affordability through several innovative Pfizer programs. That's because we're committed to doing more than discovering, developing, and bringing to market innovative medicines. We also have to make sure that the people who need those medicines can get them when and where they need them.  

We put that commitment into action with our programs such as the newly launched Helpful Answers initiative, the two-year success of the Florida Healthy State program and the establishment of the Infectious Diseases Institute in Uganda. These also demonstrate our active engagement in finding solutions to the pressing public health issues relating to access and quality affordable healthcare.  

You can see the full details in our written release and in its supporting materials, where we trust it's clear that we have a strong commitment to preserving and maintaining health for everyone, regardless of means, regardless of location. We believe this is a proper vision for the future of health, for Pfizer and for the people we serve.  

And now, David Shedlarz.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, CFO, PFIZER, INC.: Thank you, Karen.  

Pfizer continues to demonstrate remarkable resilience in the face of a challenging business environment. Full year 2004, we expect to achieve adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.12 to $2.14 and GAAP reported diluted earnings per share of $1.58 to $1.60. The difference is between targeted GAAP reported diluted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share are attributable to projected incremental purchase accounting related intangible amortization of 29 cents per share, merger-related costs of 9 cents per share, in-process research and development expenses from Experion and two animal health business acquisitions of 13 cents per share, and certain significant items, which includes a charge relating to the resolution objective court approval and approval by claimants of certain asbestos-related litigation matters of 4 cents a share. This is offset by income from continued operations of 1 cent per share.  

We continue to expect merger-related cost synergies in 2004 of about $3.5 billion reflecting rapid integration of Pharmacia. We plan to spend about $7.5 billion in R&D during the current year.  

While it's too early in our annual planning process to project Pfizer's 2005 financial performance, a number of directional factors are known or emerging. The company expects a substantial impact from the loss of exclusivity of certain major products. Four products, Diflucan, Neurontin, Acupril and Zithromax with U.S. sales for the 12 months ending September of 2004 totaling more than $5 billion faced reduced revenue in 2005 through the past or possible future loss of marketing exclusivity. Expense synergies associated with Pfizer's acquisition of Pharmacia will continue to contribute to growth, but to a lesser degree than in 2004.  

We currently estimate that merger-related synergies will increase from $1.3 billion in 2003 to about $3.5 billion in 2004 and to about $4 billion in 2005. The weakening of the dollar relative to major currencies is projected at current exchange rates to favorably affect 2004 revenue growth by approximately $1.3 billion or 3%. If current exchange rates remained unchanged, foreign exchange, on the other hand, will have no material impact on 2005 revenue growth.  

These factors expected to impact both revenue and income growth in 2005; however, several factors will partially offset these pressures. The upcoming year is expected to bring continued growth of major in-line products. The company will also realize the initial benefits of the introduction of several new products with substantial commercial potential. And the company's operating expense flexibility and capacity to achieve additional cost efficiencies will further improve prospect for income growth.  

While Pfizer's revenue and income growth will likely be tempered in the near term due to patent expirations and other factors, the company will continue to make the investments necessary to sustain strong longer term growth, the prospects for which remain excellent. We expect to be able to provide more specific guidance on Pfizer's 2005 financial performance at our analyst meeting planned for the first quarter of next year in New York.  

I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2003 annual report on Form 10-K and in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, if any.  

Also in this call, we have discussed and/or will be discussing financial and other information, as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K, dated October 20th, 2004. This report is available on our web site at  www.pfizer.com. In the for investors SEC filings by Pfizer section.  

Now, Hank, back to you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, David. Thank you, Karen.  

So let me sum all this up in this way. Continuing challenges and vigorous competition are facts of life in our business. But as Karen said, the market's tough, but we're tougher. We clearly have the most experienced, successful management team in the pharmaceutical industry. Our product portfolio unequaled operational capabilities and substantial financial depth and flexibility provide the company with a strong platform for growth in 2004 and great resilience going forward. We remain exceptionally well-positioned to leverage current and future opportunities to exploit our scale and operational flexibility while shaping our company and our future.  

We'll now turn to your questions, but because of the uncertainty of communication links from Kampala, Uganda, I'll ask David to direct the question-and-answer session from this point forward. Thank you for being with us.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: We'll take the first question.  

OPERATOR: At this time, if you would like to ask a question, please press star 1 on your touchtone phone.  

Our first question comes from Michael Caster from Bernstein. Thank you, sir, you may ask your question.  

MICHAEL CASTER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thanks very much. I'll ask two, please.  

First, intangible amortization in the press release has a tax effect of 306 million. Is there any cash benefit with that, or is that purely an accounting tax benefit?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: There is no cash benefit to that. That has to do with the basic purchase accounting treatment, which is necessary to record a tax liability up-front, but we amortize that over the amortization of the intangibles at the same time. But your point's well-taken, there is no cash benefit to the company.  

MICHAEL CASTER: The second question was, you book about 80 million in royalties every quarter. What is the top three or so products that you earn royalties on and what percent of your royalty income is due to those?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: The royalties involve both certain pharmaceutical products as well as consumer healthcare products. And it's pretty evenly distributed, about, I would say probably about eight to ten individual products, both on the consumer healthcare and also in the pharmaceutical side of the business. So there is no single one significant contributor to the royalty income of the company.  

MICHAEL CASTER: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Thank you.  

David Bucks from Buckingham Research, you may ask your question.  

DAVID BUCKS, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Yes. Two questions, if I may.  

First, for David, can you talk about the -- some of the reasons for the large sequential jump in gross margin this past quarter, whether it was mix related, and just comment on the sustainability of that into the fourth quarter?  

And secondly, this is, I guess, for Karen Katen or, perhaps, somebody in R&D, can you talk about what you're hearing from the FDA in terms of additional trial requirements? There was an announcement recently about an advisory committee on COX-2, potentially in early '05 that give us the latest thinking that you're hearing from the agency on the class of drugs themselves. Thanks.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Okay. As it relates to the gross margin issue, and I know this is somewhat complex, so there are probably two factors that I should highlight. One, the dramatic decline relative to the third quarter of last year. Then that notwithstanding, an improvement in gross margin nonetheless. The dramatic decline is purely attributable to the vagueries of purchase accounting and the fact that in the third quarter last year we had to record a cost of goods the sales price of the acquired Pharmacia product. And so that contributed about $1.3 billion to cost of goods in the third quarter of last year.  

In terms of the improvements in gross margin, that notwithstanding, there are three primary contributing factors. One of the synergies we're realizing, and we'll continue to realize in the manufacturing side of the business, from the integration of Pharmacia, and we always knew that would have a long tail to it because of the regulatory requirements before dealing with some of the integration opportunities. The other factors relate to mix, favorable mix, with the product lines growing the fastest having the lowest cost of goods. Lipitor is a perfect example of that.  

And lastly, foreign exchange, which is also favorable.  

DAVID BUCKS: Okay.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: That relates to the COX-2?  

KAREN KATEN: I'll ask Dr. Fetchco, whose our Chief Medical Officer, to talk about that.  

JOE FETCHCO, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, PFIZER, INC.: Yes, David, this is Joe Fetchco. David, we talked at the ACR meeting the other night, we alluded to the fact there would probably be an advisory committee meeting coming up, and she also took the opportunity to review data that we've submitted for Celebrex and also on Bextra. And what we're -- at this point in time, there is no -- while we're in discussions with them about what our plans are, we've announced already that we will be working with them to ensure that they have the data on an ongoing basis or, at least, contact with our DSMV's for many of the long-term ongoing studies that we have ongoing. And we've already announced that we will be doing a study with Celebrex in patients with osteoarthritis and underlying coronary artery disease. So that's already being planned.  

I'm not aware of what kind of requirements they will be asking the other COX-2 -- the other pharmaceutical companies that have COX-2's in development and under regulatory review. But it did -- she did imply that there would be a hard look at their database that they have right now, and there may be additional requirements. But we -- but we have not been asked to do anything additional compared to what we've already stated publicly.  

DAVID BUCKS: Great. Just one quick follow-up to that answer. Had you had any discussion with the agency on your Celebrex study and coronary artery disease?  

JOE FETCHCO: We haven't had a detailed discussion with them. We've had -- this has been something we've addressed with expert -- an expert advisory committee that we pulled together to help design the study. This has been going on, actually, for several months and was something that we had been thinking about for some time based on some other mechanism of action studies that we've been doing over the last year, year and a half. So they're aware that we're interested in doing it. We've just -- they know just that a general thrust of the study, but we do have to review it with them to ensure it meets any requirements that they may have.  

DAVID BUCKS: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you.  

George Graphic from Smith Barney. You may ask your question.  

GEORGE GRAPHIC, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Thanks for taking my question. First, with the Celebrex filing under review in Japan, what have the regulatory authorities communicated to each of you there regarding the safety data, and is it still on track for (inaudible) approval? And secondly, the Spiriva launch has been relatively flat over the past three or four months, at around 20,000 you stretched for a week. In your mind, why has this been the case, since it seems to have an excellent clinical profile, and what will change this dynamic going forward? Thank you.  

KAREN KATEN: We'll ask Joe Fetchco to answer first question, and Greg Duncan, who is the Vice President of Marketing for the U.S. to answer the Spiriva question.  

JOE FETCHCO: Yeah. Celebrex in Japan is under active review by the ministry of health. We -- at this point in time, I'm not aware of specific questions; however, we are sending out, just routinely, an update on the cardiovascular data that we have and in informing the Japanese authorities of the same type of data that we've sent to the FDA and the European authorities, which is, again, a summary of the epidemiological studies, a summary of the ongoing long-term studies we have with looking at cancer prevention and polyp prevention, so they're aware of that. We haven't had any specific requests for them, and it's still under active review.  

I don't want to speculate on an approval time on that. As you're aware ,they've just reemerged and reorganized totally their review body over there in Japan, but it is moving along through the review process.  

GREG DUNCAN, VP OF MARKETING, PFIZER, INC.: Okay. George, as relates to your question about Spiriva, we actually feel that Spiriva's off to a terrific start. We have broad access on a number of formularies. There is, in fact, Spiriva was noted as a must-add on several key formularies including Medco, and we're on the majority of state formulary -- state Medicaid formularies to date.  

We've had early excellent usage. What you've seen over the most recent months is a slowdown in NRX's, and that corroborates with a slow down in overall market growth during the summer months. As you may know, there's some seasonality for COPD, so we would expect that seasonality to pick up towards the fourth quarter of this year.  

It's important to note that within that performance, total prescriptions continue to grow and our refill rate growth each and every month, which is a good marker of patient and physician satisfaction with the product. And we're extraordinarily excited about the opportunities going forward given the ATS guidelines recommending increased usage of Spiriva going forward. We're working with (inaudible) to come up with measures to enable managed care organizations to systematically evaluate the quality of care for COPD, and we think there's a terrific opportunity to expand usage to primary care as well as to upgrade patients from Combovent, Atrovent and Advair.  

So we're very bullish on those prospects for Spiriva moving forward.  

GEORGE GRAPHIC: Can you also tell us what the U.S. Spiriva sales were in the quarter?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: That's part of alliance revenue.  

Next question?  

OPERATOR: Mario Korso from Summer Street Research, you may ask your question.  

MARIO KORSO, ANALYST, SUMMER STREET RESEARCH: Yes. Just going forward, looking into the fourth quarter, can you talk a little bit about how the expense trends may look in terms of fourth quarter last year, the numbers were, you know, kind of disproportionately high if you compare them to any quarter this year. Should we -- expecting -- should we be expecting the same type of jump in the fourth quarter of this year?  

And then in terms of Torceptorfib, is there any indication or are you able to say when enrollment in the IVA Study might be completed? Thank you.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: In terms of the seasonalization of expenditures, I guess the one item I can give you, which you already have, is the $7.5 million worth of R&D spend, which will give the indication that there will be a slight uptick in spend during the latter part of the year. But for the rest of it, pretty much leaving you up to your forecasting capabilities.  

UNIDENTIFIED: This is John -- we completed the screening program randomization in August, so we're recruited.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Next question.  

OPERATOR: Mara Goldstein, from CIBC World Markets. You may ask your question.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Yes. Thank you very much. You mentioned in the positive offset factors for financial -- the financial next year, growth of in line products, but we saw weakness among a number of in line products, including Zoloft and Norvasc. So I'm wondering if maybe you could talk to us about what factors in the quarter, other than the antidepressants issue in suicide in kids affected those -- how we should think about these on a go forward basis.  

KAREN KATEN: Well, we do think that the noise in the market around -- the concerns about pediatric use is problematic for the whole sector, and that's been the source of some blunting of script activity. But -- Greg, you want to add some more?  

GREG DUNCAN: Sure.  

As regards Zoloft's performance, Zoloft's performance has actually mirrored that of the entirety of the category. Remember that while the FDA made a statement on Friday, there has been ongoing advisory committees and congressional hearings investigating this and we've seen growth abatement during the third quarter for the entirety of the class. Zoloft has followed with that abatement and there's been a decrease in prescription growth down to about 1% during the quarter. That plus a little bit of destocking explains the decreased sales for the quarter.  

On a Norvasc basis, from time to time we do get a discrepancy between sales and prescription, and this quarter is one of those quarters with Norvasc. If you take a look at the demand base for Norvasc, you'll note that Norvasc prescriptions have actually grown 5% through the year. Total prescription growth of 5% in its 12th year on the market. And in the month of September, we actually reached a 52-week high of 6% in the U.S. marketplace. So we're --the underlying demand for Norvasc is quite solid. This just happens to be one of those times where the prescription sales data are not lining up.  

KAREN KATEN: We have also have an addition by Peter Brant.  

PETER BRANDT, PFIZER, INC.: In addition to what Greg just said on Norvasc in the U.S., when you take a look at Norvasc in international markets, it is weighted down or brought down, if you will, by a number of the European markets where we've lost exclusivity. So if you look at our Norvasc performance internationally in the quarter, our revenues are down 8%, but if you separate out those markets where we've experienced our loss of exclusivity, we're down quite a bit, actually 58%, as you would expect in those markets. In markets internationally where we retain our exclusivity, we're up 7% internationally.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Thank you.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: We'll take the next question.  

JOHN BORIS, ANALYST, BANK OF MONTREAL: John Boris from the Bank of Montreal. Y You may ask your question. Thanks for taking my questions. I have two quick financial questions, and then one product-related question to the COX-2 inhibitors.  

The financial questions: In recent years, Pfizer's generated about 40% of its annual operating cash flow in the first half of the year. In essence, you generated about 5.7 billion, and if you do the math and you apply the fact that you may generate the additional 60% or 7.83 billion, that would be about 13 billion that you would generate for the full year. That seems to be below where a lot of analysts are actually projecting your operating cash flow from. Can you give us some visibility on what's going on there?  

Secondly, can you just talk about share buyback? You indicate that you completed your current 5 million share buyback in October. What other prospects for another share buyback, and can you comment on the magnitude of that share buyback?  

And then just on the product side, on the COX-2 inhibitors, can you just talk about, mechanisticly, with Celebrex, what's actually going on as you've seen in animal models that gives you the conviction that it improves vascular function? And on Bextra, where do we stand with the initial pain studies that you completed, and can we expect the filing for Bextra in the treatment of acute pain in the back half of this year? Thank you.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Okay. Tall order, John. Let me take them, the two financial questions first. The cash flow from ongoing operations is still expected to be about $17 billion for the year, although it obviously has a preference for the latter part of the year -- or, excuse me. In terms of the share buyback, we did complete that early. We're currently looking at options in terms of additional share buyback, and that decision will take, hopefully, in the near future. We continue to see the investment in the company stock as something very positive to the company, and so this is an option we're currently and continue to take a look at on an ongoing basis.  

Celebrex, Joe?  

JOE FETCHCO: Yeah. This is Joe Fetchco. When Fitzgerald first came out with his hypothesis, we decided to start taking a look at some of the differences between the COX-2's, and what we found with Celebrex in a variety of different models, and some of it has been published, some of it has been submitted, there's a variety of models, these are invitro or animal models looking at different kind of membranes, protection of Celebrex on -- someone protected against oxidative processes that can damage cellular structure, there's an increased nitric oxide and a variety of things that, overall, in various animal models, show protection and improvement on endothelial dysfunction in animal models who have coronary artery disease where the endothelial function is improved.  

We also know that Celebrex, as opposed to Vioxx, penetrates the cells very differently, so that's probably another reason why it has an effect on improvement of endothelial dysfunction. And -- so last, but not least, we also see consistently across the board, whether it's a comparative study in -- previously to Vioxx or through larger epidemiologic studies, we don't have the changes in high blood pressure that's been associated clinically with Vioxx. We definitely, also served points towards that. And some of the epidemiological studies we have, large scale, epi studies out in Kaiser Permanent, for instance, showed a relative risk of coronary complications, which Celebrex is actually below the placebo -- or the age match control. So it tended toward to cardio protective. So -- well, we're not saying in cardio protective, we're pretty confident that we can look at this in some detail.  

Actually, we're still looking -- in light of everything that's been going on, we've got studies ongoing, we've got studies that have completed, but we're still evaluating what we should do with the acute pain filings for the future.  

JOHN BORIS: Thank you.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Next question.  

OPERATOR: Timothy Anderson from Prudential. You may ask your question.  

TIMOTHY ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Hi. Couple of questions.  

The first one is just a very broad non-Pfizer macro question either for Hank, if he's still on, or Karen, which is, in terms of the presidential election, do you think it makes a material difference to the outlook of the drug industry over the next few years whether it is a Kerry or a Bush win in November?  

Then on the COX category again, you guys seem pretty confident in the cardiovascular profile of Bextra, so I'm wondering why there is not a Bextra arm in this Celebrex trial you've announced, being as we really don't have any long-term data with that product. Then on para-COX, I'm wondering when and where we can expect to see the full results of that second cabbage study.  

HANK MCKINNELL: This is Hank, if I'm still on I'll try to answer the first part of this question.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: You're on.  

KAREN KATEN: You're on.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. Thank you.  

Really, I think it doesn't matter whether we have a second Bush administration or a Kerry administration. Both administrations will face the same problems. To me, the critical issue is whether we focus on the cost of healthcare, which leads us down the path of rationing and price controls, or if we focus on the value of health and the cost of disease, which leads us quite a different direction. It leads us into early detection, early treatment, compliance with treatment. It ends us in a place where I think Pfizer and other research-based pharmaceuticals are much better positioned. So what I've recommended to both campaigns is that after the election, no matter who is elected, we launch a national debate of the alternatives, and I think when people understand what the options are here, they will not favor rationing and price control, they will favor health and wellness over the other alternatives, and that ultimately benefits Pfizer and other companies in the industry.  

KAREN KATEN: Thanks, Hank.  

Joe, do you want to talk to --  

JOE FETCHCO: Yeah. Couple things there. We are -- we will be working with the FDA on talking about what kind of data they want on Bextra. The Celebrex cardiovascular study had been in the makings for quite a long time now, and was based on looking at -- based on a lot of the epidemiological studies we had that actually showed a trend toward some kind of beneficial effects seen on vasculature. So as part of what we're doing here -- this isn't strictly a safety study, we're looking at improvement in inflammatory markers for cardiovascular disease and another aspect that improve its function. We don't have the same kind of data right at this point with Bextra, we'd have to generate more. It wouldn't be appropriate. It really gets complicated to throw an extra arm just for the sake of doing that. But there would probably be some need to do some kind of separate study on Bextra that we still have to work through to design.  

As far as the para-COX, I think you asked about the cabbage 2, that has been shared with the FDA, manuscripts, it's been in several months ago now, manuscripts nearing completion and it will be published. I don't have any kind of timeframe on that at this point.  

TIMOTHY ANDERSON: Okay. Thank you very much.  

JOE FETCHCO: But it's -- just to reinforce, there's nothing new there that hasn't been represented really in the first publication.  

TIMOTHY ANDERSON: Okay. Thank you.  

JOE FETCHCO: It's pointed out in our letter. Yeah.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Next question.  

OPERATOR: Simon Elliott from Lehman Brothers. You may ask your question.  

SIMON ELLIOT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I have -- thank you for taking my question. I have a question actually on Viagra. I noticed in your press release you talk about Viagra going into additional indications, quite definitely including pulmonary arterial hypertension. I was wondering whether you could give us some idea as to when you intend to file that? You say you've got some data coming out quite soon. And also what you think the market potential is for Viagra?  

KAREN KATEN: We'll ask Dr. Lomatina to answer the first question.  

DR. LOMATINA, PFIZER, INC.: Yeah. So as you know, we don't normally comment on our filings, and we continue that process even today. We are very excited about the clinical results we've seen. We're working very closely with the FDA, the FDA is also excited by the kind of data we're generating. And so we're very optimistic about the profile of this compound to feel the benefit of PHT.  

SIMON ELLIOT: Well, may I -- potential for, you know, in its use of the drug which is extremely important for the persons who have these problems. There are so few options, and really that's the reason why this drug is being deadlocked. In terms of market sizes, it's a limited market, but is very important to put the drug on the market and make it available for patients who need it.  

KAREN KATEN: That's right. The medical need is hugh. The market size is small.  

SIMON ELLIOT: Thank you.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Next question.  

OPERATOR: CJ Sylvester from Schwab Soundview. You may ask your question.  

CJ SYLVESTER, ANALYST, SCHWAB SOUNDVIEW: Yeah. Hi, thanks. A couple questions just in terms of the leverage and the model. Clearly, a lot of your competitors, and you guys get asked this pretty much every quarter, a lot of your competitors are cutting back on their U.S. sales bases. Is that something you think about going forward when you talk about leverage -- financial leverage in the models, say '05 and '06?  

And then the second question is on Liraka, would you guys be willing to launch this product without the generalized anxiety indication? Thanks.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: I think the leverage of the model speaks to two primary elements. One, we're not finished with the integration and the cost savings. They will linger for some period of time, especially on the manufacturing side of the business.  

And two, something that's been missed is we've been going full steam on integration cost-related items is the normal ongoing and robust efforts to become more effective and efficient as an organization. If you stare at our P&L on an annual basis, we spend about $30 billion. There's always opportunities to do that more effectively, but each and every organization is taking a very hard look at. By no means are we going to pull back on any resource, including the field force if there is an opportunity. They are the primary force that allows us to support our current in line portfolio, as well as new product lines, and particularly, we'd be cautious about pulling back on the high-value activities like research, like promotional activity on behalf of the company.  

KAREN KATEN: Exactly. The field force is clearly the closest to the customer resource we have and we treasure the field force and they're very critical to our communication efforts in getting the information and knowledge about our medicines from healthcare providers to their patients.  

But I have to add, we do monitor market dynamics and we keep looking at how the to most appropriately use this critical resource sot that we get the best return from that substantial investment. So we will continue to track that and -- so far it's -- there's a great return.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Next question.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. David Moskowitz from Friedman, Billings & Ramsey. You may ask your question.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY & CO.: Yes. Thanks. Good afternoon. Could you comment on the conversion from Vioxx to Pfizer products outside the U.S., and could you also include in that discussion a comment on what's going on with the R COX product, how that's fitting in? Also, could you talk about the new repatriation laws that could affect bringing cash over from it's U.S. subsidiaries? I think you guys have about $38 billion in unremitted earnings. Can you talk about where those might be on the balance sheet? Are they in cash or in other subsidiaries? Can you just give us a lesson on that?  

And lastly, I think a follow-up to the previous question, could you give us X U.S. sales for Lyrica and also talk about the status on timing for U.S. approval of that product? Thanks.  

KAREN KATEN: We're trying to count all the questions you asked. The first question, I believe, was happened -- has happened to the Vioxx prescriptions post-withdrawal in Europe?  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ: That's right.  

KAREN KATEN: We do not have enough data yet to comment on that. We're just starting to get early data in now from Europe.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: In terms of cash repatriation, this is something we're taking a hard look at and hope is an opportunity for the company to repatriate funds from abroad in an efficient manner. We've been able to do that through other vehicles over an extended timeframe, but like any of these regulations that's fairly complex, the devil can be in the details. So we'd have to carefully go through exactly what will qualify -- what will qualify in terms of reinvestment opportunities on behalf of the company. And that's something we'll take a look at early next year because you know, the opportunity to repatriate those funds runs through 2005. But my best bet when the day is out, although we haven't been able to dive through all of the details, is this will be an opportunity to improve upon and further improve upon what already is an excellent financial structure for our company.  

KAREN KATEN: You had a question about R COX. We really can't comment on R COX, It's not our medicine so it wouldn't be appropriate. And we don't know the data. So you should ask the company that owns the product.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ: No problem. The last question was on Lyrica. Could you give out -- outside U.S. sales for Lyrica so far and can you talk about status on the timing of approval?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Lyrica has just been launched in the U.K. and Germany, so it's very early and there's no data coming in on the part of the field forces launching it. There's no data. Next question.  

OPERATOR: Carl Seiden from UBS. You may ask your question.  

CARL SEIDEN, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks very much.  

Two topics if I could, first on the COX-2's again. I suppose it's for Karen. Karen, can you talk about -- since the Vioxx withdrawal, how has your strategy behind Bextra and Celebrex changed, both on a relative basis, I mean, there's certainly some messages coming out of the company that imply that Celebrex is kind of the lead product. And also in terms of actual spending, I guess, beyond all the full-page ads we've seen, but do you have more feed on the street behind these products right now or not? And given that, are you surprised, I mean, I think the data as recently as Monday prescription trends still imply that Bextra and Celebrex are picking up new volume equally. So that's topic number one.  

Number two is the international pharmaceutical sales were certainly much weaker than trend. I think they were up only 5%. That's not fully explained by the weakening foreign exchange comparison, and it seems to be across the board. And I'm wondering, you know, I know these things are lumpy, but do you think that is a fair reflection of your actual underlying business strength internationally, or is that an anomaly on the down side for some reason? Thanks.  

KAREN KATEN: The first question is where the Vioxx scrips are going. And as you've seen yourself in the very small data that's accumulated since the withdrawal of Vioxx, both Celebrex and Bextra have picked up prescriptions.  

Obviously, the database is very tiny. There has been no growth in the market since the withdrawal of Vioxx. It's basically maintained the same levels as prior to the withdraw. We have not increased the number of people washing these products. We have yet to see which way it will go. We have not increased the number of people working these products. We -- because we haven't changed our numbers in the last week and a half. But they are -- they are both candidates for picking up new prescriptions and new patients from the entire market. The -- we firmly believe that Celebrex has the largest most substantial database to warn it as a strong consideration for patients who are taking -- or any new patient start in the market. So we are actively engaged in the discussion of Celebrex with physicians who have the decision to take on new patients from whatever source in the market.  

And Bextra, as I said before, is a very good candidate, very effective and particularly appropriate in tough-to-treat arthritis patients.  

GREG DUNCAN: Just one thing to add. Both products are certainly benefited from switches to Vioxx. The claim structure for Celebrex is one that most closely mirrors that of Vioxx. So it is approved for acute pain, as well as osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, which is a reason for the natural orientation, if you will, from a switch from Vioxx to Celebrex.  

KAREN KATEN: Does that answer your call?  

CARL SEIDEN: It does, thanks. And the international trends?  

PETER BRANDT: Again, I think when you look at that international numbers for third quarter of this year, in particular, you have to factor in what we're beginning to see with the loss of exclusivity impact on Norvasc alone. So you're absolutely right that our growth is 5%. Again, one thing is, is that this is the first quarter we are seeing an actual apples-to-apples comparison on a full product line basis relative to the Pharmacia acquisition. So the 5% gets you to something north of 7% when you make the adjustment for Norvasc loss of exclusivity in the handful of markets where we're seeing it. And that 7% is being driven by products such as Lipitor, which is still up 13% in the quarter in international markets.  

So we don't really think that that 7% or 8% is, if you will, indicative of a lessening of a robust trend in our international markets.  

CARL SEIDEN: And related to Pharmacia, if I could, they had a tremendous number, especially internationally, of kind of tail products that were always categorized as all other. Are you guys divesting any of those products yet? Is that part of the performance that we're seeing any place on the P&L, or prospectively, are there plans to do that?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: We haven't announced any plans in terms of any of the tailed product, but your observation that there are a number of tail products, which are further constraining growth, is a good one. They tend not to be growing very robustly. So Peter's point is a good one. It's being driven by some of the major products and some of the temporing in the quarter as a product of the Norvasc situation.  

Thank you.  

KAREN KATEN: I think, Carl, are still there?  

CARL SEIDEN: Yep.  

KAREN KATEN: It's important that the whole change that's taken place in the market in the last couple of weeks, obviously, has created a lot of noise and concern. We have a tremendous concern that patients are not alarmed by this and that the physicians are involved in discussions with them about which medicine they should be on.  

It also, I think, is a strong affirmation that all products are not -- all medicines are not created equal, regardless of the class, and that has been our premise forever about the difference from one medicine to another. So I think those are the fundamental conclusions we would take from this -- very couple of exciting weeks.  

CARL SEIDEN: Great. Thanks very much.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Okay. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: David Reissinger with Merrill Lynch. You may ask your question.  

DAVID REISSINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks very much. I have two question. First, can you comment on your assumption for generic when Acupril in '05 when you recently won some patent litigation.  

And second, the street took the lack of a price increase in July as a significant negative, but clearly, Pfizer is still planning on delivering, at least at the midpoint of your range, the 2.13 that you had assumed at the beginning of 2004. So should the street have taken he unchanged EPS guidance as the glass being half full rather than half empty? Or is there a comment that could make on that? Thank you.  

JEFF KINDLER, SENIOR VP, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER, INC.: David, this is Jeff Kindler. Let me take the Acupril issue. We have a commercial formulation patent that expires in 2007 that was challenged by Teva, and we did prevail in the lower court. That's on appeal. The appeal will probably be decided sometime in '05. If Teva wins the appeal, they will be able to launch their product and have 180 days of marketing exclusivity.  

On the other hand, if the lower court decision is affirmed and we prevail, they will lose their exclusivity status and other -- and applicants that are out there that have filed generic formulations of Acupril, that they claim do not infringe our patents, may have the opportunity to launch, depending on the circumstances at that time.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: With regard to the 2.12 to 2.14, I think it's probably most attributable to the fact that a lot of variables at work in the fourth quarter, but I think it's also important to recognize, even with some of the issues which have arisen, even with the changes that are implicit in running the business on an ongoing basis, the great strength and resilience of the company in its diversity. And we are able to make a commitment and to deliver on it during the course of the year. And the range still embraces that. So I think it speaks very strongly to the performance and the innovation and the flexibility of the entire organization in terms of being able to do -- deal with change on an ongoing basis.  

Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Chris [Chipatone] from JP Morgan. You may ask your question.  

CHRIS CHIPATONE (ph), ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Thanks very much. Two if I could approach one on the COX's and another on R&D strategy. I noticed in the supplemental information in the second quarter for para-COX's, you had mentioned that there was a resubmission planned by the end of the year that's absent in this quarter's additional information. I'm wondering if you can comment there? I'm reminding us that the clinical trial data that you mentioned was for acute pain, so I'm thinking that there'd be less likely an issue in terms of longer term data. But if you could just provide clarification for whether your plans are still to submit or whether things have changed.  

And secondly, on R&D strategy, based upon the budgeting guidance gone from 7.9 billion down to 7.5 billion progressively through the year back into what's been spent and what's left of the quarter, that leaves zero growth, I believe, for the fourth quarter year-on-year. Within R&D, as you're looking to where to allocate the spending, is the belt tightening occurring sort of all across the board or is it a relative one between discovery development? Maybe comment a little bit about how that's being approached. Thank you.  

JOE FETCHCO: It's Joe Fetchco. Para-COX, we're still planning on pulling the data together and filing. It is on the market in many European countries and approved there. We are still anticipating a filing going forward. The chronic -- the -- any kind of acute -- the answer I had before with acute pain and chronic pain, we're just relooking at our needs there and whether or not it's appropriate to file that going forward based on the current environment that we're in.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah. Before I ask John to answer a question on R&D, it's important to put that in perspective. Because we've lowered the number doesn't mean we have fundamentally changed the activity on behalf of the organization. It means this organization, like many others in Pfizer, has been very good and, in fact, has exceeded expectations in terms of cost synergies and also in being very sensitive to improving upon the cost efficiency and the operation as a whole. So this is a very, very positive outcome and not attributable to the company pulling back in any substantive way in terms of its investments in R&D.  

DR. LOMATINA: So, David, you just said what I -- I'll just echo what you said, in fact, we're seeing excellent synergies, but even higher productivity.  

One point I'd like to make is, a lot of times you read now, particularly smaller companies saying they're small, agile and nimble. We are finding eye-opening examples of where size brings tremendous savings in terms of cost and creating centers of excellence that enable us to really capitalize on the mere $7.5 billion we're spending right now on R&D. So this is, I think, a lot of what you've heard about smaller is better is, in fact, a lot of bunk, particularly going into the future where a lot of the types of studies we have to do to things like Lipitor and Bextra and the like are going to be long term, very expensive studies and things that only, I think, a company with our resources can in fact do.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: And now for our final question.  

OPERATOR: And that will come from Al Rauch from A.G. Edwards.  

AL RAUCH, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Thank you. I just have two questions. Number one has to do with your plans for Green Stone. It seems to be getting a lot more active. I was wondering if you plan on developing generics to other companies brands.  

And then the second one, if you could give us sort of an update on the litigation status in regards to Zithromax.  

KAREN KATEN: Peter Brandt will talk about Green Stone.  

PETER BRANDT: In terms of our Green Stone strategy, it is very much an important part of our business strategy going forward. It is -- to date, it is something though that we -- confining to Pfizer entities and when they -- loss of exclusivity coming out with our generic versions.  

JOE FETCHCO: Regarding Zithromax, the basic patent expires in November of 2005. There are some follow-on formulation patents and the like, but Zithromax is an antibiotic, so it doesn't generate the paragraph 4 and the challenges that you see in our other pharmaceuticals products. So we expect that there is a substantial possibility of generic competition after the basic patent expires in November '05.  

AL RAUCH: I'm assuming that what will happen is the generic companies will try to launch, and then you'll file an injunction, and then there will be litigation after that. Is that --  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: No. No. No. Because if the patent expires, the patent's expired and we've lost the exclusivity and there's nothing to litigate.  

AL RAUCH: Well, you'll have those formulation patents.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Well, depending on the products that they launch, they may or may not infringe those formulation patents, but I think it's a reasonable assumption that there will be generics that will find opportunities to create product that don't violate those patents.  

AL RAUCH: Are you thinking about launching an extended released version of Zithromax?  

DR. LOMATINA: Yeah. Well, we will -- Al, if you come back to your old home in Groton, we will show you a little bit about this at our analyst presentation on November 3rd.  

AL RAUCH: I'll be there. Thank you.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Okay. With that ,we conclude today's conference call and thank you, folks, for being with us today.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041103e0ak001gu
  


 HD
 Q2  2004  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,072 words
   PD
21 July 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Thank you for holding. Dr. McKinnell, you may begin.  

HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PFIZER: Hello, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's second quarter 2004 conference call and webcast. I'm Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO. I'm joined in New York this afternoon by a number of my colleagues you will be hearing from later.  

   TD
With 3 of our competitors having issued earnings and having had conference calls earlier today, we know it's been a long day already. Because of that, you have our special thanks for being with us. Because of that and our 56-page performance report, we'll be devoting the bulk of our time today to your questions. First, however, these brief observations.  

This was another good quarter for Pfizer with us, once again, delivering strong performance. Revenues were up 24% to nearly 12.3 billion. Adjusted net income increased 54% and adjusted diluted earnings per share at 47 cents was up 57%.  

All of our businesses performed well. Pfizer Consumer Healthcare is performing ahead of expectations. Pfizer Animal Health continues to grow rapidly driven by robust performance in the companion animal market. In human healthcare we had 11 products delivering first-half 2004 revenues of more than half a billion dollars each. In the second quarter, Lipitor revenues were up 17%, Neurontin up 32%, Zoloft up 25% and Bextra up 49%.  

This quarter saw the U.S. launch of 2 new medicines, Caduet and Spiriva, as well as European Union approval for Lyrica to treat neuropathic pain and epilepsy. We also extended the potential value of our current products with important new clinical data. Fresh evidence on statins and the U.S. guidelines, it is driven point to more growth potential for Lipitor.  

Landmark studies like ASCOT, CARDs, PROVE-IT, REVERSAL, and ALLIANCE have demonstrated the dramatic health benefits of ever-lower LDL levels. And we filed with I-Tech for U.S. regulatory approval of Macugen, a new treatment for AIDS-related macular degeneration, an enormous poorly met medical need.  

In addition, we remain on track to file an industry record, 20 new drug applications in the 5-year period ending in 2006, an accomplishment unprecedented in the industry. We've already filed 7 of the 20 and expect to file several more NDAs by the end of this year. Our new drug development portfolio of new compounds is now 20% larger than it was just last year.  

Much of this growth reflects a drive into therapeutic categories that are relatively new for us. In cancer treatments, for example, we've moved from a handful of new molecular entities to some 22 including 2 in late-stage clinical trials.  

We are in difficult operating environment. Tough environments, however, don't last forever. We remain confident that the cost and quality advantages of modern medicines will overcome the frustrations we all feel about rising healthcare costs of which we are less than 10%, about where we were when Dwight Eisenhower was President.  

Last week, as you well know, we adjusted our 2004 revenue estimate from the previous 54 billion to 52.5 to 53 billion. At the same time, we reconfirmed both our full-year adjusted income estimate of 16.3 billion and our adjusted diluted EPS expectation of 2.13 a share for 2004. 3 factors drove that change in our revenue guidance.  

First, we're dealing with a number of fast-changing market conditions, ranging from a milder than predicted cold and flu season, to pricing decisions by governments and other payers. Growth in global pharmaceutical markets is below the long-range average and this complicates our efforts to grow the top line.  

Secondly, there is increased competition in several of our key therapeutic categories. We all know that competitors are taking dead aim at several of our key franchises. We, in turn, as we always do, are executing plans to blunt the efforts of those competitors and to continue to expand our markets and our revenues. I am confident that we have the people, and more importantly, the products to succeed in doing so.  

Third, the effects of foreign exchange are now less favorable than we had previously projected. As an American-headquartered company with huge operations globally, even small variations from our projections can affect our revenue estimates.  

For Pfizer, the key to growth is the same as it's always been. New medicines meeting unmet medical needs and offering clear and compelling advantages over current products. New offerings such as Caduet, Lyrica and Spiriva clearly fit that mold. We expect these medicines to emerge as significant contributors to Pfizer's growth.  

We are investing heavily behind these new medicines, as well as in medicines on the near horizon, such as Macugen and Exubra, our inhaled insulin product. Even though I know we have the strongest pipeline in our industry, I also know that we have to build the next waves product by product. No company is as well prepared as we are to do just that.  

Besides research and marketing leadership, we also recognize that we must be leaders in changing people's perceptions about the value we offer to society. Influencing the external environment means thinking differently, operating differently, and partnering differently, particularly on issues of access to healthcare that are important to all. We at Pfizer can't supply all the solutions to the problems of healthcare access. But we can and must take steps in new directions.  

Earlier this month in the United States we announced the Helpful Answers initiative. We hope to help 10s of millions of Americans, without prescription drug insurance coverage, get the medicines they need. These uninsured patients, regardless of age or income, will pay considerably less, or nothing at all for Pfizer medicines.  

International examples of our efforts to address affordability and access problems include Pfizer's Diflucan partnership and the international Tracoma initiative. 2 programs making major strides in treating and eliminating certain devastating preventable diseases in developing countries.  

More than a pharmaceutical company, Pfizer is a health company. We're commit to adding years to life and life to years. Our work to develop new and better medicines for the future and to make sure that people get access to the medicines they need, demonstrates our belief that good health results in better quality of life for patient and benefits for society as well. We also believe that ultimately these efforts will build a more positive environment for our business.  

So let me sum up in this way. Continuing challenges and vigorous competition are facts of life in this business, but within Pfizer a lot is going on and going very well indeed. Our unparalleled product portfolio, unequaled operational capabilities, and substantial financial depth and flexibility provide the Company with a strong platform for growth in 2004, and great resilience going forward.  

We remain exceptionally well-positioned to leverage current and future opportunities and exploit our scale and operational flexibility while shaping our company and our future.  

Before turning to your questions I need to ask David Shedlarz, our Chief Financial Officer, to make the obligatory legal statement.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, CFO, EVP, PFIZER: Thank you, Hank. I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in the disclosure notice set forth in our performance report of today, our 2003 annual report on Form 10-K and in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, if any.  

Also in this call we have discussed, and will be discussing financial or other information, as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on Form 8-K dated July 21st of 2004. This report is available on our website at  www.pfizer.com, in the Investors SEC filing by Pfizer section.  

Back to you, Hank.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, David. And now your questions, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. If you would like to ask a question, please press star 1 on your touch-tone phone. Mara Goldstein you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Thank you very much. Yes, my first question is on Caduet. Seems like it's gotten off to a fairly modest launch. Could you talk a little bit about that product and about plans for it to kind of ramp it up.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, Mara. Karen Katen will start and then we may hear from a couple of others.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN: Thank you.  

KAREN KATEN, EVP, PRESIDENT OF PFIZER PHARMACEUTICALS GROUP, PFIZER: Well, as you know, we were very excited about the launch of Caduet, we think it's a breakthrough -- we know it's a breakthrough for medicine because it treats 2 very, very important conditions. Hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. We did launch this product to cardiologists and primary-care physicians about a month ago. Although the early awareness is very high, the ability to try it right away has not been that great.  

As you all know the diagnosis of hypertension is done almost with every physician visit. You go to the doctor, they put the cuff on you, measure the blood pressure, but they -- then they either give you an antihypertensive or not. For cholesterol, it's not routinely measured because it requires a lab test, so the primary advantage of having a medicine that treats both conditions is not easy to deliver on. So it's going to require an educational process and that's what we're in the midst of doing.  

As I said, it's too early to tell, but the cardiologists are very aware, very interested. Primary care physicians have to get their minds adjusted to the notion of treating 2 conditions with 1 medicine, which is more revolutionary, I guess, than we thought, and it's -- but it certainly offers great advantages to doctors and to patients who have only 1 co-pay, for example, and delivers the best treatments available for these 2 concomitant -- frequently concomitant and co-morbid conditions.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I would only add that the medical rationale for reducing both blood pressure and cholesterol is solid, produces clear reductions in cardiovascular risk and we have very large scale clinical studies to back that up and, ultimately, we'll see the enthusiasm we're seeing in cardiologists come down to general practitioners. So we are very confident of the eventual success of Caduet. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: C. J. Sylvester you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

C.J. SYLVESTER, ANALYST, SCHWAB SOUNDVIEW: Schwab SoundView. And thanks for taking the question. Just one thing on the revised top-line guidance and then a question on some of the product. Why now in terms of top-line guidance? I think some of the issues you guys spoke about were evident kind of at the first quarter report, so just in terms of timing, what's changed in the past few months to change the top-line number for you?  

Then if we can just talk about the cholesterol franchise, you know, Zadiac [ph] keeps gaining momentum and you guys kind of allude to the fact that it looks like it's still coming from the statin intolerant patients, but you said that last quarter and the share keeps going up. So I'm wondering your thoughts on that and then what you think the profile for Vatorin [ph] looks like going forward. Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, C.J. The top-line adjustment's obviously pretty modest on a 52 to $53 billion base here. Exchange rates did change, they change every day, you don't know that until the end of the quarter so we use the latest exchange rates, that's a big piece of it. And we refined an estimate that we made sometime ago. Remember the 54 billion was a number that we came up with on the close of Pharmacia. So we're doing some fine-tuning here.  

I would only add that it is an estimate. If the dollar were to weaken here, the estimate would start to rise again, so it's something we'll look at every quarter, if we think it needs revising we'll revise it, but it's not a very significant change to begin with and it is something we do at every quarter and where we see something that we think is important enough to signal, we'll do that.  

On Lipitor, Pat, you want to respond to that?  

PAT KELLY, PRESIDENT OF U.S. PHARMACEUTICAL, PFIZER: Sure. On -- we're quite confident that the growth for Lipitor in the cholesterol business not only continues to be there now, but will continue to be there in the future. We take heart from the fact that there's been a substantial rebound in primary-care physicians in the U.S. starting their new patients on Lipitor. That's been mirrored by a decrease in the number of patients that are being started on Zedia or other cholesterol-reducing medications.  

So with the profound data that's developing for the benefit that Lipitor provides towards ultimate cardiovascular outcomes, which is data that you'll never see out of one of the absorption inhibitors like Zedia, we think there's nothing but continued upside opportunity for continued growth of Lipitor.  

HANK MCKINNELL: That was Pat Kelly, President of our U.S. Pharmaceutical business. I'm looking at the weekly new prescription share number. If you look at Zedia and Crestor, if you were laying in a hospital bed looking at the screen, you'd be very, very concerned, it looks like a flat line.  

Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Michael Caster, you may ask your question, and please state your company name.  

MICHAEL CASTER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Hi. I'm with Bernstein. I've got 3 financial questions if I can address them to David. First is, when I do my research and look at intangible amortization, everything is indicating that it's not tax deductible yet in the adjustments that you do, you give an adjustment that's a post-tax number for it. Can you explain that?  

The second is, can you confirm that there was no gain on the sale of the surgical, ophthalmology of the diagnostics businesses?  

Lastly, when you do your budgeting, to come up with maintain guidance for the year even after having cut your top-line estimate, it suggests that your costs are going to be about $1 billion less. So are you cutting back some of your anticipated spending now or how does that end up happening?  

HANK MCKINNELL: David?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Let me start with the gain on the sale of the businesses that have been divested since the beginning of the year. Both the surgical, ophthalmology business as well as the diagnostics business, the gain was recorded as an adjustment to goodwill that did not go through the statement of income, it's an adjustment to the balance sheet, and any transaction that happens within a month of the close of the transaction we're required to do so.  

In terms of the tax treatment on the intangibles, it's pretty much a mixed bag. Most of them are not tax deductible, but I think you're looking at a line item that includes more than just the amortization of intangibles. It includes a lot of the certain significant items, as well as merger-related costs which, obviously, are tax deductible.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And on the expense number, be careful there because the foreign exchange which affects the top line also affects expenses, so that's part of it. Synergies are running ahead of what we expected, and we do have the financial flexibility to manage our business effectively. So don't jump to the conclusion that we're cutting expenses. Some of that comes in areas that don't affect the business very much.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: I'd reinforce that, that we have opt on a number of occasions the merger-related cost synergies, that's good news in terms of how effectively we've brought the organizations together. We also continue to work aggressively in terms of enhancing the productivity of what we spend so that doesn't point to doing less, it points to doing more with less, which is important.  

And also, part of the contribution of the bottom line is a lowering of the effective tax rate of the Company at the same time, which is obviously not compromising the investment in future as well.  

HANK MCKINNELL: It's not expense reduction in the classic sense. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Mario Corso you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

MARIO CORSO, ANALYST, SUMMER STREET RESEARCH PARTNERS: Summer Street Research Partners. 2 quick ones. Number 1 on Spriva, it looks like it's off to a very good start and I hear good physician feedback. I'm just wondering how significant you think that can be in terms of your operation and financial impact. And then also, Exubra in the U.S. what can be said about the FDA process at this point? Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. Pat Kelly on Spiriva which we do expect to be a significant product and it is off to a great start.  

PAT KELLY: And the significance I think is realizing the fact that the market has responded so well to this product, because it is a unique product, it's the first ever once a day inhaled bronchodilator. It treats the condition that has now risen to become the fastest growing and the third largest cause of death in the United States, and a single -- and the largest -- one of the largest causes of death worldwide, so we think there will be profound benefits to patients struggling with chronic lung disease from Spiriva.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And Exubra was -- sorry, Karen.  

KAREN KATEN: I would just add that I think the quick ramp-up of Spiriva indicates the market need in this previously really defined area. So there's huge demand here so that's the reason it's taken off such a great start. We only launched it in June if you recall.  

HANK MCKINNELL: As we described in the Q&A in the press release, we are enthusiastic about Exubra and are looking forward to the filing.  

Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Tim Anderson you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

TIM ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Tim Anderson from Prudential. Just one macro question for Hank, maybe, and then a guidance question. In terms of the overall environment for drug companies in general from a financial perspective relative to the last several years worth of history, you're pretty clearly saying that the environment has become more challenging. My question is, what's your forecast for the next 3 to 5 years kind of on these same financial metrics; is it going to get worse, is it going to get better, or maybe stay about the same?  

Then on the decrement to the revenue guidance, qualitatively you've described the various factors that are in this, and I'm wondering if you can put numbers behind those, so what portion is attributable to foreign exchange versus Viagra, versus Zyrtec, shortfalls relative to what you used to forecast.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. On the overall -- on the overall environment there's 2 factors here. One is slow down in prescription growth, which is almost global and continuing pressure on price almost everywhere. The future really depends on how successful we are in convincing payers that some of the measures they are employing to shift cost to consumers are actually resulting in higher cost to them. It sounds a little paradoxical, but the RAN study that was published, JAMA, whatever it was, just published recently, shows that increasing co-pays result in poorer compliance and which brings higher costs back to the managed care plans.  

So the better job we do of convincing people that some of these cost-control measures may actually be causing costs to go up, is really the challenge going forward. I think we're going to be successful in that. We've got a number of examples now and are certainly working on others. Which show what we all know, which is the cost effectiveness of modern pharmaceuticals. David, on the impact of the various factors, we haven't actually broken that out publicly but --.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: The operational factors, the more dominant [inaudible] foreign exchange is a player, it probably is in the range of about 20 to 30% in terms of the adjustment as it relates to the top-line forecast.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Next question.  

OPERATOR: David Moskowitz you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: Good afternoon. It's Friedman, Billings, Ramsey. Couple questions on the neurology portfolio. Zoloft and Neurontin sales huge increases in these products. Not complaining, but can you explain the significant growth of these products on a year-over-year basis?  

Question 2 would be, there's product from Pharmacia called Sumanurol [ph]. Can you talk about whether or not that product is still alive and what the lead indication for that product will be, whether it's Parkinsons or restless leg?  

And then lastly, could you just update us on the timeline for the approval of Lyrica in the U.S. Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: I'll handle the last one. That's easy. We don't forecast approval dates because that's not within our control. You should ask the FDA that question. John LaMattina on Sumanurol.  

JOHN LAMATTINA, PRESIDENT OF PFIZER GLOBAL RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: Sumanurol is still in development for both indications that you mentioned and we're still working on it.  

HANK MCKINNELL: The high growth of Zoloft and Neurontin reflects the quality of the products and the experience of the Pfizer team. Unless, Pat, you have something else to add?  

PAT KELLY: No [Laughter].  

HANK MCKINNELL: We'll take that.  

PAT KELLY: Take that.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, next question.  

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, S.G. COWEN & COMPANY: Thank you. S.G. Cowen & Company. Hank, you mentioned and the release states that we expect to file self more NDAs by the end of the year, now the release specifically mentions Parcoxic [ph] as likely to be filed by the end of 2004 can you tell us what other ones you plan to file by the end of this year. Secondly, could you detail for us any price increases in the quarter?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. On filing, just as we don't forecast approvals, filings are within our control, but our policy is -- has been to announce the filing when accepted by the FDA, but I can tell you you'll be pleased by the end of the year. On price in the quarter? Zero.  

Thank you. Next question.  

OPERATOR: Carl Seiden, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

CARL SEIDEN, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks very much. I'm with UBS. Couple of questions on the revenue side. Hank, you talked about the different contributors as to why you had to modestly lower the revenue guidance. I'm wondering if you could reflect on over the last year what elements of revenue have been positive surprises, what's coming in better over that time period than you expected?  

Secondly, can you tell us specifically for Neurontin what the current assumptions are vis-a-vis your current guidance, as to whether or not you're assuming you will or will not have generic competition in the back half of this year, whether or not you would view that as legally appropriate? And if I could just follow up on Zoloft and Neurontin although the figures were very, very strong in the U.S. specifically they were running meaningfully ahead of what prescription trends would have implied, and I know you get this question every quarter, but is there anything specific about those products that is unusual in terms of their stocking levels or is there anything else that you could explain? Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. Let me do them in reverse order. There are every quarter minor changes in individual product inventory levels. Our policy is always to manage to target numbers which stay the same constantly. If you undershoot a little bit in the quarter a year ago and you overshoot a little bit in the quarter this year you do get a change, and it works the other way as well.  

So I'm not too upset about minor changes in prescription numbers versus inventory numbers. In fact, we make these decisions based on 2 months' data. We don't see the third month of the quarter until later. I haven't even seen it this month, whether we have it or not. We don't even know what the prescription growth in the quarter was because we'll have that in a few days I'm sure, but it's always lagging by a month or so. In total, there was no significant change in inventories is what you need to know. Whether there was a 1 or 2-day difference product by product, we won't know until we see the prescription data.  

On Neurontin yes we will have generic competition by 2017, but I'll let Jeff Kindler provide some additional color.  

JEFF KINDLER, SVP, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER: Carl, there's nothing new on the litigation. The summary judgment motions remain pending, we have no trial date, so it's all status quo and we're proceeding accordingly. And the assumptions for the forecast for this year does assume no generic competition in 2004.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And on the revenue side, we are pleased by the strength in the revenue growth, particularly our top 5 products. Is there anything, Pat, you'd like to highlight?  

PAT KELLY: I'd point to the performance in the U.S. of products like Relpax, Geodon, ZYVOX and Vfend, all of which are in their second year or so of launch and are beginning to really see some acceleration in their market progress reflective of the strong benefits those products provide.  

HANK MCKINNELL: That's a very good point and one that may not be well understood. That we're kind of all out of this era where the first 6 months sets the trajectory for the life of the product and we expect to be gaining share very rapidly in the first year. The current market is different. We're seeing much slower up-take and the acceleration in the growth of products that were launched a year or more ago is very positive for us, because, frankly, we'd been expecting, given the historical models, to see that growth at this point starting to slow down. Where as currently the curve seems to be shaped the other way and that's very positive for the future. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Ken your line is open. Please state your company name.  

KEN ARAKI, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Nomura Securities. Thank you for taking my questions. I have 2 questions. First of all, your recent initiatives for "Helpful Answers" program, what's the impact for you bottom line income? A significant negative or no essential impact?  

Second question is Caduet. According to today's release, approximately 80% of prescription Caduet is new business. The remaining 20% could you please introduce a little bit detail of the character, for example, the Norvasc monotherapy, the Lipitor monotherapy or let's see, use of Lipitor and Norvasc? Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: On Helpful Answers, as we said on the launch this is an American solution to an American problem. With many in Congress inclined to vote for illegal importation for political benefit, which exposes those receiving drugs over the Internet to just enormous safety risks. We really thought that we needed to do something to address what is an American problem, which is the uninsured, probably the least able to afford to pay for their medicines, because of the absence of managed care discounts are paying the highest prices.  

So basically what we did is gave the uninsured access to our best managed care prices, then for the low income uninsured went to greater discounts and for the very low income went to free access to our medicines. We think it's the right thing to do. It has had, we think, a significant impact on the political debate here and something I think that is part of our efforts to influence the external environment. Pat Kelly on Caduet?  

PAT KELLY: So the calculation that we provided was not compared to any monotherapy. It was a comparison to dual therapy for these 2 conditions. So the 20% that is not new patients to this therapy were coming from a mix of other antihypertensives and other cholesterol reducers, as well as some Norvasc and some Lipitor, but used in combination, not as single therapies.  

KEN ARAKI: Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Morgan Stanley. Hank, a question on the new R&D guidance this year, you're dropping it by 300 million. A cynic would say you're doing it to make the number this year, an optimist would say you're starting to focus on efficiencies, operating returns, can you kind of give of us a picture of how you now look at R&D and how we should think about the R&D budget going forward? Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Jami, 2 things. One is I am an optimist and the foreign exchange impact that's having a negative impact on the top line, of course has a positive impact on the bottom line -- sorry, on expenses. So the same factors which are reducing our revenue estimates slightly are also reducing our R&D estimates slightly.  

The second factor is we're getting more out of synergies than we thought and, you know, these are programs ongoing, some spend money at a faster rate, some spend money at a slower rate. I don't know what the net of all that is, John, but that can't be a very big factor.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: No, I would also add that we were very aggressive during the integration to get the organization on track as soon as possible. Not unlike everybody else, but for us we really made our changes a year ago and the synergies which we initially calculated we achieved sooner and more so we've been -- in a large organization getting a lot more streamlined and I think having beneficial effect overall.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, thank you. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Neil Sweig you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

NEIL SWEIG, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Fulcrum Partners. Thank you for taking the question. I have 3 questions. If you take a look at the foreign currency rates now that you have 5% in the first quarter, 4% benefit in the second quarter, what would you expect the benefit to sales be from FX in the third and fourth quarter?  

Second question, why did U.S. sales of Norvasc fall by 3% and when does the Norvasc patent expire in Italy and France?  

Last question, when will you complete the European rights acquisition for Camdesar [ph], when will those sales enter into your U.S. sales for Camdesar? Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, on the foreign exchange impact, what we assume is that the end of the quarter rate is constant for the rest of the year. It's not a very good forecast, but it's the one we use and it's served us pretty well over time. The impact of that, of course depends on what the exchange rate was last year, so the answer to that question is you'd have to compare the third quarter and fourth quarter rates last year to the current rate and the net of that, David, is 2 or 3%, I would guess.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Approximately 2%.  

HANK MCKINNELL: 2% if the rates stay where they are today, which of course, they won't, but it will be about 2% in the third and fourth quarter. Camdesar, I think is on closing, isn't it?  

KAREN KATEN: Right. When did they close, I don't know? They haven't closed yet.  

HANK MCKINNELL: They haven't closed yet, so whenever the merger closes we then obtain rights to Camdesar, we'll start recording sales at that point. The Norvasc patent in Italy in France?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: We, I think, it's the basic patent is about '04 and the [inaudible] patent is about '07.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: I think there's solid coverage in Italy and France through 2007 at least.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay, through 2007. There are several patents involved here. And the minus 3% Norvasc growth in the quarter?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Nothing to be worried about. For the year to date, full 6 months, it's up 5%, so, again, I think that's just a quarter-to-quarter anomaly.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Simon Elliott you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

SIMON ELLIOTT, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you for taking my question. I'm from Lehman Brothers. Quick question on Viagra and PAH [ph]. Just wondering whether you knew what the data was yet from some of the trials that you're enduring and what the status is of those trials and when you think we will be able to see that data and, also finally, when do you expect, if you do, to file PAH?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Good question, Simon. Let me ask Joe Feczko to explain both the question and see what guidance we can give you.  

JOE FECZKO, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: We're looking at pulmonary arterial hypertension in -- pulmonary hypertension in both adults and children and those studies are ongoing, basically, so while we have preliminary studies, preliminary data has been reported out of meetings and I think in the press to a large extent, the main studies are actually ongoing right now. It's a matter of when we -- hard to predict when those will be finished because of the ongoing recruitment, it's not a real common disease but they're ongoing.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Joe, would it be fair to characterize the preliminary data as positive?  

JOE FECZKO: Yeah, positive. We're seeing good results, we're optimistic about this. We had some early studies that let us down, now we've got a more formal plan with both the European Union and the FDA.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Karen Colter, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

FLAE LEWIS (ph), ANALYST, WAYBOSSIT RESEARCH & MANAGEMENT: Hi, it's Flae Lewis at Waybossit Research & Management. I just wonder if you would respond to some matters you see in the press periodically that have to do with this guy who runs the health plan in this town or a guy in a state will head for Canada and start buying drugs for his health plan there. What does that mean to us? I mean, gets in the newspapers, but this is increasingly the case and a politically popular thing to do, what does it mean to Pfizer over the longer haul?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, the impact currently of illegal importation from Canada is 20 million, 30 million. It's not a big number. What concerns us more is most of these importations come from Internet websites, and we know more than 50% of those, even though they claim to be Canadian, are registered in Belize and Pakistan and about half of them are fictitious persons and fictitious addresses in the United States. The FDA customs has now done 2 samples of pharmaceuticals coming into the United States and they find almost 9 out of 10 to be fake or substandard.  

The importation issue is not so much the financial impact on us, that's a very modest number, it exposes patients to safety risks that, frankly are unnecessary, which is why we launched the Helpful Answers program.  

FLAE LEWIS (ph): So when the Mayor of Springfield, Massachusetts drives up to Canada to buy drugs for, you know, the employees of Springfield, is he getting Pakistani drugs or -- I mean, is there any impact or any future of that for Pfizer?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, the drugs sold by pharmacists in Canada that have been received from us are probably as safe as drugs in the United States. The problem is, when the pharmacist fills an order from somebody in the United States, we don't know where those drugs come from, because we supply Canadian pharmacists what they need for Canadian demand. And there has been a dramatic increase in imports into Canada being trans-shipped into the United States, so the impact on us financially isn't significant ,but there is a major risk to patients' safety here in the United States. And I would only point out the Mayor of Springfield is breaking United States federal law.  

Thank you. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: George Grofik, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

GEORGE GROFIK, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Smith Barney. Thanks for taking my question. First, is it your expectation that Lipitor TNT trial could complete later in 2004 or is that a 2005 event? And secondly, can you just comment generally on the formulary acceptance for Caduet? Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: The TNT is treat to new targets.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: It's end-point driven so we're just following along.  

HANK MCKINNELL: it's end-point driven. The more events there are in the control group the sooner it will conclude. It could be a very significant result, this is one that we have high expectations for and could somebody comment on formulary acceptance of Caduet?  

PAT KELLY: So far, so good. In today's new U.S. market it takes awhile to schedule the meetings and to get the decisions from those various accounts, but we've had tremendous formulary up-take from the national PBM accounts already on Caduet and we're looking forward to many more positive decisions going forward.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you. Next question.  

OPERATOR: Bert Hazlett, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

BERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks. It's SunTrust. My question is on Geodon, which showed particular strength in the states this quarter. Could you remind us of any additional clinical studies underway to such port that product, and can you give us a sense of where the status of the labeling modification regarding the metabolic AE's is for that product?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, Bert. That's a very good question. Joe.  

JOE FECZKO: Yeah, the metabolic work we've submitted a very large supplemental filing to the FDA on that and we're in discussion with them right now on trying to finalize some preliminary labeling and do a review of that supplemental filing. As far as ongoing studies, we're doing -- always doing ongoing work. I'm trying to think right what we -- bipolar has been filed, bipolar acute mania, but there's just continued work going on to profile versus other agents.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Our belief on labeling is that the labeling should be the most useful possible to the physician and the patient and in the case of Geodon we think that would be enormously beneficial to Geodon.  

KAREN KATEN: You're correct that Geodon is experiencing strong growth. We attribute it to increased switching from other products and movement to the appropriate dose, because there is a strong dose correlation with efficacy in this product so that they're getting to the right dose, right numbers of doctors, the right number of patients, and the use in bipolar disorder which represents a new area and important area [inaudible] for Geodon. Okay. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Steve slaughter, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

STEVE SLOTTER (ph), ANALYST, UBS GLOBAL ASSET MANAGEMENT: UBS Global Asset Management. Question on Diflucan and Norvasc. You reference in the press release European patent expirees affecting both products, yet both product held up quite well on the quarter. Just wondering, is it a situation where other country growth is going to prop up those sales despite losses in Europe or have we not fully reflected in this particular quarter the effects of those expirees?  

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, 2 things. Diflucan is doing exceptionally well in the United States which is offsetting slow growth in Europe, but the international markets, because of government price control, do not have the very rapid conversion to generics that we see in the United States. So you will see in European countries when a product goes generic, the originator continues to sell at approximately the same price, that's changing a little bit, but historically the impact of government price control has been to suppress competition and you don't see anything like the generic penetration or the reduction in price that you see here in the United States.  

Norvasc is continuing to grow in the international markets. We've been through patent expiration in a couple of small countries and we're protected through 2007 in general in Europe.  

JOHN LAMATTINA: And Italy and France. We've seen some erosion in other countries, modest in the second quarter.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay. Next question.  

OPERATOR: Tony Butler, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.  

TONY BUTLER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. Yes, Lehman Brothers. Hank, while I respect your comment about being an optimist, again if we look at Europe demand may be less than optimistic. For example, if you take Germany, the concept of reference pricing, Lipitor and other -- or potentially other brand statins I would suspect is being watched by the health ministers of a number of countries. What are you doing, and more importantly, what is Pfizer doing to address that, because this could really be a much bigger issue with respect to sales in Europe, not only this year but certainly next year and beyond. Thanks.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Tony, that's a good point to raise. There's at least 2 things going on here. One is reference prices of an innovative patent protected product to something that is patent expired is clearly a bad idea, it kills innovation. We believe and we believe that the health minister will overturn this recommendation as the minister very well should. So we don't think there will be reference pricing of all statins within Germany, that would be a very bad idea.  

But there is an increasing swing now to European voters and also now European governments to suddenly start bemoaning the very logical, predictable result of their own policies which is to continue to seek cost reductions over investments and jobs. And we're seeing a very accelerating now rapid undoing of the European research base and there's been some 200,000 jobs lost out of Germany this year alone, so I think we're going to start seeing a little broader view of some of that Draconian price control measures.  

Ian, do you want to add to that in any way?  

IAN READ, PRESIDENT OF EUROPEAN PHARMACEUTICAL, PFIZER: Just that the recommendation, which is what it is from the working group, was not unexpected. It is managed by the sick funds but as this gets into the minister of health we expect to see that decision reversed.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Yeah, we expect the minister will have to overturn it.  

TONY BUTLER: Thank you.  

HANK MCKINNELL: With that, we'll go to our final question.  

OPERATOR: Jessica Hanover you may ask your question. Please state your company name.  

JESSICA HANOVER, ANALYST, ROBERT BAIRD & COMPANY: Hi. Robert Baird & Company. Thanks for taking my question. Just had some questions on Viagra. I notice in your press release you reference the fact that the ED market continues to grow at a rate of about 25%. I just want to know what basis that number is on. Is that a year-over-year basis? Also, wondering how that number compares to previous years and then if you think that kind of growth is sustainable in the out years.  

HANK MCKINNELL: Pat Kelly.  

PAT KELLY: Well, so the market is in the U.S. again where it is the most recent launches of the other two erectile dysfunction agents. The market is growing nicely, but frankly, not as much as one would anticipate given the profound number of men with erectile dysfunction that still have yet to present for treatment. It's unfortunately our [inaudible] competitors have taken the tact of trying to grab share of the existing market as opposed to extending it to those that are in need of these treatments.  

So I think market growth is okay in the ED market, but we would like to see more and we look forward to being able to restart even more significant market growth going forward.  

HANK MCKINNELL: And Ian Read from the European?  

IAN READ: Market growth in Europe is 21% year to date, that's about 8 points above what we saw historically and it's not as aggressive as we expected given the new entrants, and they're also trying to cannibalize Viagra.  

HANK MCKINNELL: You'll find a comment on this question on page 11 of our press release. We know in that any market category new entrants do raise the noise level and they succeeds -- that then succeeds in convincing men to see doctors. When they do that 73% of those end up on Viagra according to current numbers and we're hoping that the unrivaled track record of safety and efficacy of Viagra will continue to take advantage of this faster growing market.  

With that, we conclude today's conference call. Thank you for being with us.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040804e07l0018i
  


 HD
 Q1  2004  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,298 words
   PD
20 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Thank you Dr. McKinnell, you may begin.   

HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PFIZER: Hello, everyone and welcome to Pfizer's 2004 conference call and Web cast. I'm Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO of Pfizer. I'm joined this afternoon by several members of our companies leadership here in New York. You will be hearing from several members of this all-star team during the call. As always, thank you for being with us.   

   TD
We begin 2004 on a very positive note. I'm very pleased with our financial results which David Shedlarz, our Chief Financial Officer, will discuss briefly. With the performance of our inline products, with one exception which I suspect we'll discuss. And more importantly, longer term, the wealth of positive clinical support for our marketed products which Karen Katen, President of Pfizer Global Pharmaceuticals will discuss.   

During the quarter we also achieved many important milestones in bringing the next generation of Pfizer medicines to patients, which John LaMattina, President of Pfizer Global Research and Development will discuss. David?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PFIZER: Thank you, Hank and good afternoon, everyone. Pfizer has a strong platform for growth in 2004. First quarter revenues grew 47% to nearly $12.5 billion. Revenue growth was driven by the inclusion of post-acquisition results of Legacy Pharmacia products and strong performances across a broad range of products and the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. The prior year results represent Legacy Pfizer only given the April 16th, 2003 close of the Pharmacia acquisition.   

Pfizer reported net income in the quarter of over $2.3 billion, or 30 cents per diluted share. The operating results of the [INAUDIBLE] in-vitro allergy and autoimmune diagnostic testing business, European Generics businesses, surgical ophthalmology products and certain non-core European consumer healthcare products have been reclassified as discontinued operations. As a result of this restatement, Pfizer's first quarter 2004 and first quarter of 2003 revenues are reduced by $150 million, and $19 million respectively.   

Reported net income and reported die earnings about per share also included non-cash charges of about $1.5 billion, relating to purchase accounting for the acquisitions of Pharmacia, Esperion and two Animal Health businesses. Also reflected merger-related costs of $160 million, and a certain significant item of $19 million. All on an after-tax basis.   

Excluding these items and discontinued operations, adjusted net income grew 58% to about $4 billion. And adjusted diluted earnings per share increased 27% to 52 cents compared to the first quarter of last year. With the solid first quarter behind us, our targets for strong financial performance throughout 2004 remain unchanged. Revenue of about $54 billion, adjusted income of $16.3 billion, and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.13. Achievements of these targets, of course, is subject to the many variables, including foreign exchange, cited in the disclosure notice in our core performance report.   

Also unchanged is the accounting implicit in those targets. Our stated targets for 2004 have always been based and continue to be based upon the definitions of adjusted income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share reflected in first quarter 2004 financial reporting. As such, they exclude the contribution of planned divestitures and include the expense of milestone payments to development partners.   

For comparison purposes, first quarter 2003 adjusted income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share have been restated to conform to the 2004 format. We continue to project merger-related cost synergies in 2004 of about $3.4 billion, and we plan to spend about $7.9 billion in research and development during the year as well. Our current targets for 2004 reported net income of $11.9 billion and for 2004 reported diluted earnings per share of $1.55 reflect additional in-process research and development expenses for Esperion and for two Animal Health acquisitions of $955 million, which were reported in the first quarter.   

I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2003 annual report on Form 10-K and our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and 8-K, if any. Also in this call, we have discussed and/or will be discussing financial and other information, as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures for the most directly comparable GAAP financial matters in our current report on Form 8-K, dated April 20th, 2004. This report is available on our Web site, at   www.Pfizer.com  in the Foreign Investors SEC filings by Pfizer section. And now Karen Katen.   

KAREN KATEN, EXECUTIVE VP, PRESIDENT OF PFIZER PHARMACEUTICALS GROUP, PFIZER: Thank you David. Good afternoon, everyone. Pfizer Pharmaceuticals continued its strong performance in the first quarter. 11 products including Lipitor, Norvasc, Celebrex, Zoloft and Zyrtech and Xalatan each achieved revenues of more than a quarter billion dollars. Our cardiovascular portfolio continues to benefit from the significant investment in clinical research we have generated to support the value of our medicines.   

Lipitor, the world's largest selling pharmaceutical, generated revenues in the quarter of $2.5 billion, ahead 19%. Quarterly revenue for Norvasc, the fourth largest selling medicine and largest selling anti-hypertensive in the world grew 16% to reach $1.1 billion for the quarter. Four of the world's 11 best selling medicines are commercialized by Pfizer and 14 of our medicines lead their therapeutic categories. We are aggressively rounding out our portfolio of blockbusters with clusters of specialty products focused on meeting urgent medical needs such as Multiple Sclerosis, oncology and opthalmology. Our largest product, Lipitor, maintains its position as a leading statin worldwide. This leadership is built on a solid record of efficacy, safety and customer trust strengthened by an expanding clinical database. I'm sure have you all seen the extraordinary stream of new data that arrived in the first quarter.   

Among recent new studies highlighting Lipitor effectiveness and safety, the reversal study published in "Jama" shows that aggressive lipid lowering with Lipitor, unlike moderate lipid lowering with Pravacohl stops progression of osteosclerosis in people with coronary heart disease. In the proven study funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb, Lipitor proved more effective than Pravacohl in lowering heart attack victims cholesterol levels, increasing survival and preventing other cardiovascular events reinforcing the results of the reversal trial. In January, our unique new medicine Caduet, duel therapy of Norvasc and Lipitor became the first medicine approved by the FDA for the simultaneous treatment of high blood pressure and high cholesterol. The two leading risk factors for heart disease which, of course is the leading cause of death in the United States. Approximately 30 million people in the U.S. have both conditions; although, fewer than 10% have achieved their recommended treatment goals. Caduet will be available in multiple dosages to offer doctors and healthcare givers a variety of treatment options. We plan to begin presenting the Caduet data and value to doctors in the U.S. next month.   

On January 30th, the same day as the Caduet approval, the FDA also approved the Spiriva handy haler, for chronic once-daily treatment of broncho spasms associated Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. Spiriva is being co-promoted by Pfizer and Boehringer Ingelheim, whom as you know is were the product originated, and it's doing well in more than 40 markets. The U.S. induction of Spiriva is planned for mid-year '04.   

The intergroup Exemestane study, Exemestane is the generic of Aromasin. A recent clinical trial for breast cancer, published in "The New England Journal of Medicine" found that patients switching to Aromasin, which of course is Exemestane, after two to three years of Tamoxifen therapy, experienced a 32% reduction in the risk of recurrence of breast cancer at three years, as opposed to those continuing on Tamoxifen. The study was stopped early because of the significant clinical benefits of Aromasin. Based on these results, we will ask the FDA to change the label for Aromasin to include earlier use for women with breast cancer.   

Our company, continues to lead the worldwide pharmaceutical industry, not only through our portfolio of leading medicines but also through our initiatives to help patients get access to the medicine that they need. Under Pfizer's innovative program, Florida Healthy State, more than 110,000 Medicaid patients suffering from asthma, hypertension, heart failure, diabetes and related conditions have received personalized counseling, health education, and home health aids. Florida has seen as a result important improvements in patient health metrics and has been able to reduce its Medicaid spending. This integrated approach encourages the appropriate use of medicines and helps to reduce other healthcare costs, while improving patient care, and health outcomes. We have now introduced a similar program in the UK through a pilot partnership with the National Health Service that is designed to improve the health of elderly patients suffering from congestive heart failure.   

Through our leading medicines and efforts to ensure that patients get those medicines when they need them, we are striving to help millions more overcome barriers to achieving good health. In the U.S., the Pfizer for Living sharecard has helped more than a half million people get affordable access to medicine with nearly 5 million prescriptions filled to date. Response to the program from sharecard members has been and continues to be overwhelmingly favorable. Now, John LaMattina.   

JOHN LAMATTINA, PRESIDENT OF PFIZER GLOBAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PFIZER: Thanks, Karen. First quarter of 2004 was a period of major achievement for R&D. We continue to accomplish key regulatory objectives and we expect additional milestones throughout 2004.   

We are making steady progress towards our unprecedented goal of filing 20 major NDAs in the five-year period ending in 2006. Among the quarter accomplishments, in February Pfizer and Aventis applied in the EU for marketing approval of Exubera, our inhaled insulin product for the treatment of type one and type two diabetes. Exubera will be the first new route of administration of insulin in the last 80 years since insulin injections were first introduces.   

Also in February, Pfizer and Altana applied the EU for marketing approval of Daxas which is expected to be the first PD-4 inhibitor approved for both COPD and asthma. During the quarter Pfizer filed supplemental NDAs for labeling changes for Geodon and for use of Fragmin in the treatment and prevention of venus thrombo-embolism and cancer patients. And Viagra has been granted [ INAUDIBLE ] drug status in the EU for the treatment for pulmanary arterial hypertension.   

As you heard from Karen our spectacular results with Lipitor as demonstrated in studies such as reversal, card and prove it, are changing medical practice in treating high levels of LDL. Similarly, we are heavily committed to what we believe is the next frontier of cardiovascular medicine, that of ACL elevation. We have tangibly demonstrated this commitment with our recently completed acquisition of Esperion Therapeutics and our internals of torcetrapib/Lipitor combination program to distinct yet complimentary approaches to treating low ACL. Our Esperion division is exploring large molecules such as ETC-216 for use in Post-MI patients and [ INAUDIBLE ] syndrome. On the small molecule front the combination of our cholesterol [ INAUDIBLE ] protein inhibitor, [ INAUDIBLE ], with Lipitor will provide a chronic use therapy with a promise of drastically reducing cardiovascular disease, a major burden on the healthcare system.   

Finally, we continue to drive the multiple and diverse components of our late-stage pipeline including the injectable COX-2 sective inhibitor, Dynastat for pain and inflammation, Lasofoxifene for osteoporosis, [ INAUDIBLE ] for insomnia under co-development with Neurocrine, Macugen, for acute macular degeneration under development with Eyetech. [ INAUDIBLE], an NNRTI for HIV/AIDS. The combination of Zithromax and Chloroquinefor malaria, Asenapine for schizophrenia and and bipolar disorder under co-development with Organon. Edotecarin for colorectal cancer and SU-11248 for gastrointestinal stromal cell tumors and other cancers.   

The depth and breadth of this pipeline is unmatched in the industry and will enable us to fulfill our challenging goal of 20 NDAs in the five year period ending in 2006. Thanks.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, John. I guess research is back. We are continuing our long-standing commitment to all stakeholders to deliver outstanding business results while expanding access to innovative medicines and demonstrating good corporate citizenship. We also recognize the critical role we play as the world's largest company committed to healthcare. A role now recognized by the inclusion of Pfizer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. We are very proud of this milestone and the contributions being made by our 122,000 colleagues around the world. 2004 will be an exciting year for Pfizer, as we continue to advance our mission of becoming the world's most valued company to patients, customers, colleagues, investors, business partners and the communities where we live and work. And now, your questions please.   

OPERATOR: If would you like to ask a question, please press star and then one on your phone. Our first question comes from David Risinger. Sir, please state your company name.   

DAVID RISINGER, MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, Merrill Lynch. My question is related to additional clarity on Torcetrapib. You had mentioned in your press release that 12,000 patients are enrolled in clinical trials and separately, you have plans for enrolling 13,000 in morbidity and mortality trials. If you could please help us understand how many trials are on in the first bucket of 12,000 patients, and is it right to assume that you plan on filing Torcetrapib on a subsegment of the 12,000 patients and, in addition should we expect clarity on filing timing at your analyst day later this year? Thank you.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, David. Well, we just kicked off those studies recently so we certainly don't have 12,000 patients already enrolled. Being enrolled might have been better grammar. And we file when we're ready to file. We cannot announce those until we file them. But Joe, do you have some comments on the trial design?   

JOE FECZKO, PFIZER: Yeah. The bulk of the filing package will -- I think we stated this before, it is a series of -- it's in a flux of try trials. One bucket is a series of trials looking at imaging that is a key end point. We are looking at regression and change in size of atheromas in the coronary arteries and in the carotid artery. And we're using ultrasound technology, as well as traditional ultrasounds on necrotic. And those are large, fairly large studies looking at changes over a two year period.   

In addition we're doing some traditional comparative studies against other lipid lowering agents just looking at changes in lipid corrections LDL, HDL and a variety of subtractions. That's the bulk of the phrase three program and then the morbidity trial is separate from that and it will be ongoing at the time of filing.   

DAVID RISINGER: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Timothy Anderson, you may ask your question.   

TIMOTHY ANDERSON: Thank you. Excuse me. A couple of questions. The first is: When looking at sequential total company revenues, I'm just trying to figure out how first quarter total revenues could be about $1.7 billion below where they were the first quarter of last year. I guess if you correct for discontinued operations it's closer to $1.5 billion. It doesn't look like it's the trend that's been seen in the past either with Pfizer or Pharmacia at quarters. And I'm wondering why the big Delta going from last quarter to this quarter sequentially.   

And then on gross margins obviously a nice figure in the quarter and the highest in the industry. But I'm wondering how much more margin improvement is possible and what is the realistic theoretic upper limit on gross margins for the company?   

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, fourth quarter to first quarter revenue changes do reflect discontinued operations. More importantly, though the fourth quarter is always bigger than the first quarter. That's not surprising in our business. We're very pleased with the revenue growth in the first quarter. You can see that going down the individual products. And except for Zithromax which reflects a stronger flu season last year and, of course Viagra which I'm sure somebody is going to ask about here. And David on gross margins.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: The gross margins of the company in the first quarter are reflecting a number of factors. Especially relative to the prior year. They reflect the mix of Pharmacia and Pfizer products in the first quarter of last year we only had Legacy Pfizer products. It also reflects the fact that the foreign exchange, while it's climbed to the top line is not kind with regard to expenditures. And lastly, last year we were recording the benefits of our commercialization of Bextra and Celebrex with Alliance revenue without the cost of goods and this year we are recording both the revenues and cost of goods.   

Now having said that, the fact that Pharmacia had a lot higher relative cost of good and it points to an opportunity that we fully expect to take advantage of in terms of rationalizing the manufacturing operations and, in fact, part of the $4 billion synergy that we're looking forward to. Hence little longer lead time attended to and that's tied in the regulatory underpinning some of our manufacturing rationalizations.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Just to underscore that, this time last year, just after closing, we had, I think 93 manufacturing plants around the world. We're down to about 86 now. And that number goes down every couple of months.   

Next question, please.   

OPERATOR: James Kelly, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

JAMES KELLY, GOLDMAN SACHS: Goldman Sachs. Good afternoon. I'm asking about the difference between the adjusted earnings and the GAAP earnings. And David, I just want to make sure I understand for the gain on sales of discontinued items, and the gain on sales, if you are selling product lines, will these items both be excluded from the adjusted number? My first pass on the first quarter of '03 in the adjustment said that a small item came back into the adjusted number and I just wanted to be clear. Thank you.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Well, Jim, thanks for the question. The biggest exclusion, of course was something like $2.5 billion in gains on sales of two of the consumer products businesses. But, David, is there anything else?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah, the $2.2 billion associated with the divestiture last year in the first quarter of our Adams business, and our Schick shaving business is the primary contributing factor. Now having said that, the $2.13 does not include any impact of divestitures because we don't have any plan at this point in time that we can put a number around. So to kind of clear up the $2.13, it doesn't reflect any benefit or detriment from the sale of businesses because none have been contemplated and estimated at this point.   

TIMOTHY ANDERSON: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Ken Kuljo, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

KEN KULJO, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Yes, Credit Suisse First Boston. Thanks. Question on Caduet. I wonder if you could comment on the relative positioning of this drug. Obviously, it's somewhat designed to cannibalize Norvasc ahead of the patent expiration. Could you give a better feel for the number of patients who have who are on Lipitor and Norvasc and what type of metrics are you use internally to get to essentially gauge the success of the Caduet launch, relative to Lipitor as well as relative to the established Norvasc franchise. That would be very helpful. Thanks.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, Ken. Karen, you can start?   

KAREN KATEN: I will take a stab at it and then my colleagues can fill in the blanks. We're obviously very excited about Caduet. We won't talk about the product positioning at this point and time. But we are launching it at the end of this month with the feel force in the U.S. and so far, will only metric we have is the degree of stocking and the interest in the stocking, which has been considerable. Though that, in fact, substantially more than our usual launch average. So that there seems to be a general excitement and interest in the product in the -- at least in the pharmacy community. And I will ask for Carolina and Greg Duncan to comment on their worldwide and U.S. experience. Which is -- which is non-existent yet.   

CAROLINE, PFIZER: Lipitor is to cannibalize Norvasc. It is to treat two risk factors hypertensions and lipids which are very rarely treated to go. Physicians will start treating hypertension and then much later on, and sometimes not at all, we'll deal with lipids and we have seen in the ascot study that actually patient hypertension should be treated aggressively during the disorder. So the key rationale behind Caduet is to give physicians the opportunity and the tool to treat both conditions together. The overall patients taking both Lipitor and Norvasc is not very high. It's something like 4 or 5% of the patients. So that's clearly not the main driver for us. It's really making sure that patients are controlled for both conditions which are 90% of those patients are actually treated.   

TIMOTHY ANDERSON: Thank you.   

KAREN KATEN: Greg?   

GREG DUNCAN, PFIZER: To put that in further prospective, the [ INAUDIBLE ] patient group of [ INAUDIBLE ] hypertension dyslipidemia is 21% larger than the overall hypertension patient base at large and as Rick Kelly mentioned less than 10% of those patients are actually at goal and Caduet has demonstrated it can get six out of ten patients to goal. And importantly right now there's only 3% of that total pool of 21 million patients who are on Lipitor and Norvasc at the same time. So effectively, roughly speaking 97% of those patients are a terrific opportunity for an upgrade.   

KAREN KATEN: That's why cannibalization would not make sense.   

TIMOTHY ANDERSON: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Carl Seiden you may ask your question. State your company name.   

CARL SEIDEN, J.P.MORGAN: Thanks very much. I'm with J.P. Morgan. A couple of questions on Pregabalin. Although we understand that the FDA filing was simultaneous for the various indications, I'm assuming it will be separate parts of the FDA. Are you expecting a simultaneous approval process or do the indications now go on their separate paths?   

And separately, could you tell us therapeutically, how you would characterize the advantages of Pregabalin, versus Neurontin specifically in treating neuropathic pain.   

And last, in the Q&A section of your release today you talked about the objective of moving Neurontins use for neuropathic pain up to the 800 milligram per day dose. Can you put some numbers on how successful that has been? What percent was at that dose before it started? And where you are now and where you think you can go? Thanks.   

HANK MCKINNELL: On the regulatory pathway, it is one NDA and you are correct, there are different parts of the FDA doing simultaneous reviews, but it does come back together then into a final approvable process for the NDA. Joe, on differences between Pregabalin and Neurontin, these are, of course, different chemical entities. There are a number of significant differences from dosing to [ INAUDIBLE ], is there anything that stands out?   

JOE FECZKO: The Pregabalin, of course, Lyrica has -- what's been very interesting is consistently in our studies is the consistency of response that we have seen. It is a lower pill burden. It is a lower dosage to use and the efficacy that we have seen -- these are difficult trials especially neuropathic pain because any syndrome, often sees a placebo. What we have seen pretty consistently with a wide range of studies with Pregabalin that are GAD, neuropathic pain, and of course, epilepsy is a consistency of response that was a little bit harder to see ---- at times. And, again, the efficacy has been extremely good.   

HANK MCKINNELL: And more potent in terms of milligram dosages.   

JOE FECZKO: Lower pill burden and lower dosages.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Neurontin dose , Caroline.   

CAROLINE: I think the numbers going up and I don't quote numbers in the various countries but it is really difficult the effective of dose even though it's creeping up, it is far from what it should be.   

GREG DUNCAN: It is estimated that probably fewer than 50% of patients have the effective dose of 1800 milligrams at present. [ INAUDIBLE ].   

CARL SEIDEN: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Jami Rubin you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

JAMI RUBIN, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you, Morgan Stanley. So I will get to ask the question on Viagra, Hank. Obviously, new competition has created pressure on market share but we've also noted that Viagra's new RXs have declined at an accelerated base over the last quarter. So, if you could talk about -- we obviously know what's happening there in terms of new competition but we don't seem to be seeing market expansion and growth of this category the way that I think some of us would have expected. If you could talk about that.   

And secondly, to put it bluntly it seems like Inspra is a big flop. Can you talk about why sales were zero this quarter and what we can expect going forward. Thanks.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Viagra is a bit of a three-part story. First, is the international markets where competition has been on the market for about a year. It seems to have stabilized the two competitive products are not gaining share. They seem to have plateaued. Many places we are seeing a shift back to Viagra. So the international market doesn't look like much of a near-therm threat to our business.   

U.S. results at least on the revenue side are magnified in way that many of you might not have thought of. When a product goes to growing to even a modest decline, the days of inventory get magnified pretty quickly. Because we control wholesale inventories to a .5, to .75 month level, that magnified the effect on revenues much more dramatically than scripts. So if you look at the U.S. numbers, revenues are down about 25%, I think scripts are down about 6%. So Viagra is actually doing not as well as we had hoped, obviously, we have a number of competitive responses underway already. But Viagra is the one product that is is a disappointment to us and we are going to do things differently. So let's stay on Viagra for a minute and then we'll come to Inspra. Karen?   

KAREN KATEN: I'd just like to add that at the other variable that's maybe not being looked at as closely like inventory is the vouchers that both Levitra and Cialis are using to encourage the use of their products. They counted scripts even though they are samples. So that distorts the script count for both of those compounds. And so that's -- that really is an additional factor.   

The other issue is that we are launching a value card for Viagra and I will ask Greg to talk about it a little bit more to encourage -- to keep the loyal individuals on the medicine, and encourage the continued compliance and the use of the medicine as we go forward. Greg?   

GREG DUNCAN: Sure I would be happy to put it in domestic context. It's important to note that still even with the new competition, two out of three new patients are prescribed Viagra and importantly the patient that's have stayed loyal to Viagra tend to be the heavier users, which is a much more valuable patient to us from a franchise perspective. Those who have actually moved to both Levitra and Cialis are occasional or infrequency users. And the Viagra loyalty program is actually targeted directly at those avid or heavy users such that those who get six prescriptions actually get the seventh prescription free. That's turned out to be a terrific benefit to our loyal customers and we are seeing patients in the marketplace now switch back from Levitra and Cialis to Viagra. In the most recent prescription data that Viagra's share went up modestly, while the shares of Levitra and Cialis went back a little bit   

KAREN KATEN: I think your point about the market expansion is a very good one, Jami. We're disappointed that the market did not expand. We assumed and hoped that the market would expand and carry all boats with it. It hasn't happened as much as we expected. So we have to -- and they are targeting, directly targeting Viagra, so we have to slog it out in the market and see what happens as time goes on and that's been very -- that's been very reasonable if you look at the European experience and the Asia experience. So we expect that we'll see these recreational users who like to try new products in this category come back to the Viagra because of this performance.   

HANK MCKINNELL: What is reassuring is no product has been demonstrated to be better tolerated or more effective and we are now turning to the hard job of regaining shares. So I think you'll see things look quite different in the future. Karen or Caroline on Inspra? Greg?   

CAROLINE: I think the -- with Inspra, I think there's some conFusion about the -- about what the drug is indicated for. It is indicated to prevent CHF in patients who have had an MI and have other issues. What this drug is not indicated and has never been targeted to the bulk of the CHF patients. To give you a frame of reference, CHF has 5 million patients hypertension or lipids is 50 or 55 million. So it is much less. But if you are looking at the indication, it is for patients who have had a recent MI. So the pool of patient, which is eligible at any one time is fairly limited. So you would expect a drug with that indication aimed at those particular patients to grow very gradually, as the patient accrues, as the drug is being used in hospital and the drug is accepted by formulary and discharged protocol. So it's a fairly long process to make it an established course of therapy within the hospital and releasing the patients. But there is not a huge pool of CHF patients to be add. It is indicated forever patients who have had a recent MI.   

KAREN KATEN: I think the other point is that the excitement about the science has confused some people because people are very excited about the science and having a medicine that works in this patient pool, because obviously, it is not been well treated but it is still a limited population. It is more or less a niche market I guess you would call it. The awareness and trial by cardiologist who are driving this in the institutions and driving formulary acceptance is quite substantial. 25% of the cardiologist in the U.S. have reported using Inspra. At least in some of their patients but it is a limited number of patients. So -- and formulary will stem from that.   

JAMI RUBIN: Okay. The next question.   

OPERATOR: Ken Araki, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

KEN ARAKI, NOMURA SECURITIES: Nomura Securities. In terms of the last three years the reclassification issue and the EPS adjustment issue. First of all, could you please describe 2003 impact, and also when you guided 2004 EPS guidance regionally, you didn't mention these types of classifications. Today the permission of 2004 EPS guidance imply you are underlying performance original than expectation excluding this reclassification issue. Thank you.   

HANK MCKINNELL: I think you are mixing apples and oranges here. David, can you help out?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes, the strong performance expected for the full year in terms of adjusted earnings per share is $2.13 remains unchanged. What has transpired here is the need to properly account for our plans to divest certain businesses during the course of 2004. And as a result, the change in accounting treatment to accommodate that.   

The other factor is a more conservative approach that we have adopted in 2004 in terms of including the expenses that we currently have under contract, for co-promotion in 2004 and obviously we there to go back and restate on the same basis for 2003. But most importantly, the adjusted earnings expectations for the company have not changed. They continue to point to strong growth and strong performance.   

KEN ARAKI: Thank you.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Mr. David Moskowitz, you may ask your question and please state your company name.   

DAVID MOSKOWITZ, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: Yes, thank you. Friedman, Billings, Ramsey. Good afternoon. Lipitor you reported up 14% year-over-year growth in the U.S. We have -- we're tracking volume growth at about 4% in the U.S. Pricing, I think you guys have stated is up about 3 to 4%. So the other 6%, we're assuming is from buy-in on the proven study, as well as dose escalation. Could you talk about that incremental 6% in term of those two factors and in terms of your inventory, are you letting more inventory into the channel because of the proven study?   

HANK MCKINNELL: The answer is no, but Peter Brandt our Head of Finance for Pharmaceuticals do you want to try that one?   

PETER BRANDT, HEAD OF FINANCE FOR PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER: Sure I think if you look at some of the numbers of Lipitor performance for the first quarter are up 6.5 or 7%. So that gives you a little bit of a gap because I think you cited the number of 4%.   

To Hank's point exactly it is not anything with letting more into the channel. Our inventory practices tight with the wholesalers in terms of allowing for only underlying demand that's pulled through not pushed in. I think what you are looking at in our product that that has continued to reach the benefits of the clinical work that's done over the period of years and the whole body of work that adds up to an impressive portfolio. The delta that you are referring to is within the normal ranges of what you expect when you compare revenue and inventory changes in scripts performance.   

HANK MCKINNELL: What people may not understand is we make the shipping decisions at the end of a quarter, based on two months of data. We don't actually get the third month until two weeks into the fourth period of the year, for example. So you will see some minor fluctuations quarter to quarter and inventory levels but over time, it averages out to our targets and over all products it averages out to no significant difference. Now it may not be true of all companies but we see -- we tend not to see, except for these minor changes, quarter to quarter anything of significance in our inventory numbers.   

KAREN KATEN: You make a good point on prove it study. We did see a bump up in scripts immediately following that publication and the "Wall Street Journal" highlighting of it.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Next question, please.   

OPERATOR: George Grofik , you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

GEORGE GROFIK, SMITH BARNEY: Smith Barney. Thanks for taking my question. Can you just give us a status update on the Neurontin litigation.   

And secondly, recognizing that year-over-year comparisons are distorted by the acquisition, could you give a sense of what pricing contributed to sales growth in the quarter? Thanks.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Yes, Jeff Kindler, our General Council.   

JEFF KINDLER, GENERAL COUNCIL, PFIZER: Yes there's nothing really knew to report on the Neurontin litigation. The subject motions remain pending. The deadline for discovery concerning Apatex is September 1, 2004. So the discovery is ongoing through the summer on that particular defendant and the summary judgment motions are pending with the court. We have no knowledge of when the court might rule on them and no trial that has been set.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Now, pricing is pretty close to a net zero in line with our longstanding, decade-long policy of being moderate in price increases and pricing new products at a discount to major competition. Next question.   

OPERATOR: Scott Henry, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

SCOTT HENRY, OPPENHEIMER: It's Oppenheimer. Just a couple of modeling question, particularly given the Pharmacia acquisition. When I look at the gross margin for Q1 '04, do you believe that's indicative of the full year '04 gross margin? And as well, if you could give any color on the other income line, obviously the amortization and net interest is pretty easy to figure out but more in terms of the other line and particularly any co-promotion charges through '04.   

HANK MCKINNELL: We need to get the roles straight here. We don't forecast margins for the year. That's your job. David, on other income.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah, there's a breakdown of other income, which is included in the Q&A section and by far the biggest factor is is the amortization of intangibles associated with the Pharmacia acquisition.   

SCOTT HENRY: Thank you.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Steve Scala, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

STEVE SCALA, SG COWEN: SG Cowen. Thank you. Several questions on Spiriva. First, the product is off to a terrific start in foreign markets. Can you sell us about the usage in those markets? Is it being used as a single agent or combined with others and is it being driven by new patients or switches from other therapies?   

Secondly, was Spiriva a meaningful contributor to Alliance revenue in Q1.   

And then thirdly it appears one Glaxo's routes roots of attacks could be the potential urinary obstruction given [ INAUDIBLE ] colon mechanism. I think there was four cases of obstruction in clinical trials requiring catheterization. How do you defend against that particular attack?   

HANK MCKINNELL: Well you're right, the start has been terrific in the international markets reflecting very strong clinical data for the product it. It clearly is becoming the gold standard in COPD. Caroline do you want to sart with the international results?   

CAROLINE: I think the answer of where they go is the answer of all of the above. I mean, this drug is used by itself, but it is also used in combination other agents, just becoming the norm to treat COPD patients. And the amount of operating from the former form of the drug depends very much on the countries and how big it was. But regardless of how much -- what's the mix of agent in the various countries the drug is being used widely and it is seen as the gold standard agent.   

HANK MCKINNELL: And we have never broken down Alliance revenue in total. It's about $144 million. Part of that is clearly Spiriva and this vicious Glaxo/Spiriva attack, Joe?   

JOE FECZKO: Well, they are antagonists. I guess it was given orally or with high blood levels. We're not aware of any significant problem. We're not aware of a problem really being reported to us and we have to remember, it is inhaled and it works predominantly locally. [ INAUDIBLE ]. You avoid systemic toxicity and have local effects. I'm not aware of -- they may be saying it but I'm not aware of this being a problem out in the clinic, in the medical situation.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, David.   

OPERATOR: Tony Butler you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

TONY BUTLER, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Lehman Brothers. Thank you very much. Hank, perhaps a little more of a boring question on June the 1st a number of discount cards will become available to Medicare recipients. I'm curious of your view how it will affect the industry. Moreover, how will it affect Pfizer's own card? Would you argue that it is in direct competition? Will Pfizer make some adjustments to its card on a forward-looking basis? Thanks.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Good question, Tony. I think -- there's pleasant news coming on the discount cards. There's almost 30 of them. I think the discounts will be far more nationwide. The discounts will be far more significant than anybody is expecting. So into these modest expectations there will be a very significant discount benefit here for all seniors, and particularly for low income seniors who benefit from a $600 credit against these cards. Our own card will be integrated into a larger offering called the you share card and that will be available next month and Peter Brandt you might want to talk a little bit about the specifics of that.   

PETER BRANDT: Yes, there are at least 30 national offerings out there. We anticipate there will be over 100 offerings in total when you include some of the regional or local plans that will be offering discount cards as well. And, again, to echo the points that Hank made, I think the ability to generate meaningful discounts is going to be profound in this. I think the card that we have, which Hank said will be the you share, it won't be the Pfizer offerings but one if not a couple of other pharmaceutical companies giving the same type of benefit, if you will, as opposed to top-line discounts that we have seen in the sharecard. We have been offering a 30-day supply of any of our products for $15 as a flat fee as owed to any type of a percentage off a much higher number. I think the ability to get these into eligible individuals' hands is going to be the true test of these cards. And I think every company that's behind one is gearing up to rather large effort to do just that.   

HANK MCKINNELL: And, of course we start with more than 500,000 elderly and disabled already enrolled in our card. So I think the power of those cards is going to be a pleasant surprise. There's also, as you may know, a massive Medicare prescription drug benefit educational campaign underway, which I think is going to -- we know from our own research once seniors understand the benefit, they like it a lot better. So I think you are going to see some good news on the pharmaceutical pricing side pretty quickly.   

TONY BUTLER: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Jim Baker, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

JIM BAKER, NEUBERGER BERMAN: Neuberger Berman. I wanted to ask you about cash flow expected for this year. Last year you spent a little over $3 billion for pension contribution and restructuring and outlays for Pharmacia. And I think I recall that at your June meeting last year, you thought cash from operations could be something approaching $18 billion in 2004 with capex maybe in the $2.5 billion range. Could you comment on that? And in particular, what sort of pension contribution and restructuring outlays you expect this year.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Good question, Jim. One of our real strengths. David?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes. At first just dropping back to 2003, and putting that in some context, we were expecting about $13 billion in cash flow from ongoing operations. And we achieved slightly in excess of that. So it was an excellent year both in terms of the income statement, and also the cash flow from ongoing operations. And as we now look to 2004, while we haven't put an official number out there, we're still looking in the range that we formerly highlights in terms of cash flow expectations and as it relates to additional contributions to the pension plan, we don't expect any significant additional contribution during the course of the year.   

JIM BAKER: And restructuring outlays?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: The restructuring outlays in total, still on the term of the overall program expected to be about $5.5 million but about $2.25 million this year.   

JIM BAKER: Okay. And just one other thing, do you have figures for what your sales for the COX-2 franchise would have been in the first quarter of '03 because I don't think Pharmacia ever actually reported last year and that might just be useful thing to know. Of course it was only Celebrex last year in the first quarter.   

HANK MCKINNELL: We have not done the pro forma for the first quarter of last year.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: We don't report anything other than what we actually operate.   

JIM BAKER: Okay. If I could just refer to one thing you did report, though, last year, you did publish a number in the -- the 10-Q last year which basically indicated that pro forma sales for the first quarter of '03, for the combined companies would have been $11,632 billion and you can deduce that by subtracting the second quarter from the six months.   

Now, I don't think that's comparable to what you would say this year because I guess there have been certain -- you know, things that you have classified as discontinued and possibly some small divestitures over the course of last year. Could you give us some feeling of how that $11.6 billion might be revised to really make it comparable to $12.5 billion you reported today.   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Again, we steer clear of reporting out unless absolutely required. And the pro forma you are talking about si pro forma required for SEC filing purposes but they are not numbers that we derived. They are numbers that Pharmacia derived and we are obviously not going to speak to those and obviously it's not appropriate for to us adjust them either.   

HANK MCKINNELL: We didn't operate the business, it's hard for to us comment on it.   

JIM BAKER: I know you will not be reporting similar pro forma numbers this year in the queue or maybe you will?   

DAVID SHEDLARZ: That's correct. We won't -- whenever we can avoid presenting pro formas especially for something we have not operated.   

JIM BAKER: Thank you, gentlemen.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Okay we have time for one more question.   

OPERATOR: Mara Goldstein, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.   

MARA GOLDSTEIN, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: It's Mara Goldstein with CIBC World Markets. Just a follow-up on Viagra if I may. It seems that the answer to Jami's question are not representative of market dynamics or somewhat due to inventory adjustments. Should we infer that reported sales in the second quarter are likely to be closer to prescription trends or is it your expectation that this process will take a bit longer to work its way through the P&L?   

HANK MCKINNELL: It may take a little longer. Our policy is always trying to target normal inventory levels at quarter end. It is going to depend in part on what happens to prescriptions during the quarter. If they are continuing to go down, which is not my expectation, that then magnifies the inventory effect. If they start going up again, this ratchet starts going the other way. So it depends on what happens during the quarter.   

MARA GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Thank you.   

HANK MCKINNELL: Thank you, Mara. With that question we conclude today's conference call. We appreciate your time and support of Pfizer. Thank you.   

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]   

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ghea : Health | ntra : Transcript | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040504e04k000xd
  


 HD
 Q3  2003  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,671 words
   PD
22 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
HENRY MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PFIZER: Hello everyone and welcome to Pfizer's third quarter conference call and web cast. I'm Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO of Pfizer here in New York with members of our company's leadership team. Thank you for being with us, especially on this very busy day of multiple earnings announcements. Given the comprehensive nature of our just issued quarterly performance report, I will begin by simply noting the obvious. This was another terrific quarter for Pfizer. One which reinforces our platform for sustained growth, and strengthens our capability for improving the health of patients worldwide.  

   TD
With, that I will now ask David Shedlarz our Chief Financial Officer to highlight our financial results and future expectations; to be followed by Karen Katen, President of Pfizer Global Pharmaceuticals to review the performance of our major pharmaceutical products. Thereafter, I will briefly address our second press release of this morning announcing our new human health care organization before responding to your questions. So David, would you please begin?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ, CFO, PFIZER: Thanks, Hank. We are very pleased with the results of the third quarter which displayed Pfizer's traditional financial hallmarks, strong revenue growth driven by existing and new products, ongoing investments in support of those products, profit margin expansion-stemming from operating leverage and productivity initiatives, and strong earnings growth. But the quarter also reflected the unique character of 2003. A year with many moving parts. Impacted by the timing and the dynamics of the Pharmacia acquisition.  

Third quarter 2003 adjusted diluted earnings per share are 47 cents was three cents higher than previously estimated and evidenced growth of 21% over the prior year. Our current estimates for the fourth quarter of 2003 for adjusted diluted earnings per share is 51 cents. This is three cents lower than previously estimated. Primarily due to the timing of spending between the third and fourth quarters. We continue to anticipate 2003 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.73 for the full year, as previously estimated. We now expect 2003 diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis of 72 cents.  

As a reminder, adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share are defined as reported net income or loss and reported diluted earnings or loss per share excluding the impact of purchase accounting for the Pharmacia acquisition, certain significant items, merger-related costs, and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Our previously communicated targets for 2004 included revenue of about $54 billion, merger related cost synergies of about $3 billion, adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.13, and diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis of $1.77.  

As is customary, the company's currently refining the details of its 2004 operating plan and will provide investors with a more comprehensive overview of 2004 early next year. All in all, our operating strengths and unique financial flexibility put us in a very solid position to continue to deliver on major life setting medicines to patients; as well as, strong financial performance to investors. Of course, I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2002 annual report on form 10-K and in our periodic reports on form 10-Q and form 8-K, if any.  

Also, in this call, we have discussed and/or will be discussing financial and other information as well as some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about Pfizer's performance. You can find the reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our current report on form 8-K, dated October 22nd. This report is available on our web site at  www.Pfizer.com, in the For Investors SEC Filing by Pfizer section. And now I would like to introduce Karen Katen.  

KAREN KATEN, PRESIDENT PFIZER GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER: Thank you, David. Good morning -- good afternoon, everyone. Pharmaceutical revenues through the third quarter year-to-date exceeded $27 billion, reflecting our ability to continually achieve performance despite the intense challenges in our operating environment. In this quarter, these challenges came from new competition in key markets, as well as increasingly aggressive payer cost controls. We've reinforced our position as a global industry leader in every major worldwide market. This performance is the direct result of a sharp focus on our established products; effective management of our expanded portfolio of important new matters; and continued emphasis on meeting the needs of health care customers and, of course, patients.  

In the third quarter, 14 products remain number one in their respective therapeutic categories, more than any other company. Eight of the world's 25 top-selling medicines and seven products with more than $1billion in sales each, year-to-date, are marketed by Pfizer. Over 1 billion prescriptions are written for our products each year. The current quarter performance was fundamentally driven by our ability to support and grow our expanded portfolio. A portfolio that now reflects the full integration of Pharmacia's products.  

Given the broad range of therapeutic areas and market sizes, now represented within our portfolio, we are achieving growth to an effective balance of product support needs. We will continue to advance medicines that treat chronic illnesses within the therapeutic categories that affect large patient populations. However, we will also strengthen our commitment to medicines that serve small populations and meet critical, more targeted patient needs.  

In terms of Pfizer's largest medicines, ongoing scientific data for Lipitor shows that it remains unsurpassed in it's effectiveness and safety in lowering LDL cholesterol. Lipitor leadership is apparent in it's 22% worldwide sales growth in the third quarter and 16% worldwide growth year-to-date. Pfizer also outpaced the U.S. market this quarter in audited sales for three key therapeutic categories, selective Cox 2 inhibitors for pain, in antibiotics, and in cardiovascular medicines.  

The recent approval of Inspira for congestive heart failure by the FDA further expands the reach and breadth of Pfizer's cardiovascular franchise. Despite new competition in the lipid lowering and erectile dysfunction markets during the third quarter, our products retained a strong leadership position; supported by strong safety and efficacy data. Today Lipitor new prescriptions and sales market share in the U.S. and Europe have not been significantly affected by competitive entries. In fact, Lipitor remains the best-selling medicine in the world, and continues to demonstrate solid reputation with prescribers as the statin that can be most trusted across all dosing levels.  

Viagra now faces new branded pharmaceutical competition in the worldwide ED market. Viagra market share remains strong with 85% share of new prescriptions as of mid-October. With it's solid record of efficacy and safety, Viagra continues to set the therapeutic standards; demonstrated by sales performance and customer satisfaction around the world.  

We are also sharpening our focus on the needs of patients who aren't served by broad market therapies. Through new products and partnerships, Pfizer has significantly expanded it's product portfolio to include medicines that treat, important medical needs in smaller patient populations. Examples include Vfend, a novel antifungal; our entire oncology portfolio, including Campus RLN and Aromacin; an expanded neuro science portfolio that we further enhanced by the approval of Pregablin; and our comprehensive opthalmology portfolio which now includes Zithromax and Zalitan and will expand to include Macugen which Pfizer will copromote with Eyetech.  

This quarter, this month in fact, Organon announced on October 20th that we have entered into a global agreement for the exclusive worldwide development and commercialization of their product Asenapine, a potential new psychotropic medication for the treatment of a variety of disorders. It is beginning phase three trials, has completed phase two in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. We are excited this compound not only because of the positive phase two data; but also because it amplifies our portfolio, and it's important therapeutic categories and offers potential of being best in class in the antipsychotic marketplace.  

We are well positioned to face new competition and address more medical needs for a wide variety of patient populations. Not just with leading medicines as I already told you; but also with innovative access and health management programs to improve health care delivery and patient health outcomes. Now I would like to turn things back to Hank.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Thank you, Karen. Before turning to your questions, I would like to discuss our announcement this morning of a new approach to managing our human health care business. Over the past 10 years, we've moved from a mid-sized pharmaceutical company to the world's largest. We are using the leverage of our expanded scale and scope, but we must also be able to make decisions quickly, and ensure that our heads of our main operations are in agreement and alignment.  

Today, we announce a new decision-making structure for Pfizer. Pfizer Human Healthcare. This organization brings the leaders of our R&D, commercial, manufacturing, and licensing and development organizations together into one decision making group under my direct leadership. Our goal as a business that is aligned end-to-end, from the earliest stage of discovery, through to final distribution. I believe that this organization will help us work both faster, and smarter. It is one-stop shopping if you will for all the major decisions that need to be made in managing our present and future health care portfolio. This organization is made up of the most experienced, successful management team in the industry.  

As you know, we also today announced new roles for two senior executives, Peter Corr and John LaMattina. I've asked Peter to focus on two areas, the inlicensing of compounds through partnership and the formation of alliances; and Pfizer's scientific policies. Pfizer is already the partner of choice in alliances. But clearly, we must expand that lead so that we can supplement the growth generated by the products we discover in development.  

John LaMattina will be responsible as President of Pfizer Global Research and Development for continuing the improvement in our research productivity. We want to have a research team that is not only acknowledged as the biggest, but also the best. Both John and Peter will join me, Karen Katen and our manufacturing head, John Mitchell, on our knew newly formed Pfizer Human Healthcare leadership team to build the end-to-end health care business that we want.  

Over the past three years, we've integrated both Warner Lambert and Pharmacia. There is more work to be done, of course, but we have pursued the integrations with, what I believe is, unprecedented excellence in execution. That excellence is reflected in the performance we've delivered quarter after quarter. Now, with even more focus, a more streamlined organization, better alignment, and clearer channels of decision making; I'm very excited with what we can do in human health care, as well as, in consumer health and animal health. I certainly believe that Pfizer is in position to fully capitalize on global trends towards greater access to ever better health care and that we will be among the best in building shareholder value in a sustainable fashion.  

Now before moving to your questions, I would like to ask Jeff Kindler, our General Counsel, to provide background to a number of patent issues that we're addressing. Jeff?  

JEFF KINDLER, GENERAL COUNSEL, PFIZER: Thank you, Hank and good afternoon, everyone. As you know, the generic companies have mounted a number of legal challenges to our patents as well as those of our competitors. As Hank has said this is quite simply a broad-based attempt by these companies to try to appropriate our intellectual property for their own commercial benefit. Unfortunately, given the way the system works, these companies can now challenge us at little cost and little risk. They get as many free shots as they want to take. And they have virtually nothing to lose.  

It is important to realize that the premise of many of these cases is that the patent office has been improperly issuing patents. So it's worth remembering that each and every patent granted by the patent office is subject to a lengthy and thorough and expert review that can last as much as 10 years. It is a pain-staking process, as it should be. And as a result of this expert and careful review, the issuance of a patent carries a presumption of validity which the generic companies are trying to overcome in these lawsuits.  

We had a perfect example of the kinds of things I'm talking about just this week. In February, 2000, Pfizer received a notice letter from a generic company called Novopharm challenging the validity of our basic Phluconozal patent expiring in January, 2004; the patent for Diflucan. The challenge contained no new issues that had not been fully examined and considered by the U.S. patent office, in it's thorough examination of Pfizer's patent application prior to grant. Nevertheless, Pfizer was obligated to essentially retry these issues over again in court. And so on March 10, 2000, Pfizer filed suit in the U.S. district court for the northern district of Illinois.  

After two years of costly litigation, Pfizer was awarded summary judgment on February 14, 2002. And a month later, Novopharm conceded that Pfizer's patent was valid and infringed and the case was dismissed. But less than a month later, Pfizer received a new notice letter from a different generic, Ranbaxy, challenging Pfizer's Gluconsal patent on essentially the same grounds so we filed suit in May of last year. This Monday, two days ago, Pfizer has learned that Ranbaxy has now conceded before the U.S. district court for the district of New Jersey that they do not plan to continue with their patent challenge due to the imminent expiration of Pfizer's patent.  

So not only are generics allowed to challenge the validity of any and all patents that have undergone a rigorous technical full examination by the U.S. patent office; but regardless of how many times the research-based company prevails in litigation, any number of additional generic companies can challenge the patent on identical grounds. In other words regardless of how many free shots the generics take, we have to respond, and in this case, we have now prevailed twice. Our legal responses will continue to be very aggressive.  

Our recent victory in the U.S. district court for the district of New York against Teva related to Accupril is another example. Of course, I can't predict the outcome of any particular case; but I do think a balanced perspective is appropriate given what goes into obtaining a pharmaceutical patent in the first place.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Thank you, Jeff. Now to your questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you at this point we are ready to begin the question and answer session. If you would like to ask a question, please press star one, on your touch-tone phone. You will be announced prior to asking your question. Again, to ask a question, press star one. Our first question comes from CJ Sylvester. You may ask your question and please state your company name.  

CJ SYLVESTER, ANALYST, UBS: Sorry, UBS. I was just wondering, first, on the 505 B 2 issue, I'm sorry if you touched on this, I may have missed it.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Sorry, you're breaking up. You could try again?  

CJ SYLVESTER: Can you hear me now? You can hear me?  

HENRY MCKINNELL: No. Try again.  

CJ SYLVESTER: That's about as good as it is going to get. Hello?  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Yes, try again. We're losing you. Sorry.  

CJ SYLVESTER: On the 505 B 2 issue, can you hear me?  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Yes.  

CJ SYLVESTER: The FDA came out last week, no changes to the law. Is this something that Pfizer will aggressively try to get into the courts, and on that avenue, will you attempt to sue the FDA? Secondly on some product oriented issues, if you could touch on the strength we've seen in Lipitor, what you guys are doing in the marketplace, perhaps to increase the compliance rates on this product, and what the current compliance rate is for Lipitor? And lastly, on the Organon deal, it appears to be me that drug has been in phase two for the past five years. Anything that would have held that drug up in terms of development? And what you think the advantages of that drug over the current atypicals would be?  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Okay. Thank you. Jeff, on the 505 B?  

JEFF KINDLER: Sure, Hank, let me give a little background for the benefit of everybody listening. As you know we filed a citizens petition with the FDA, contending the agency cannot prove Doctor Ready's application without improperly relying on the proprietary data we submitted in our Norvasc MDA. We've also as you know sued Doctor Ready for patent infringement, in a case that is now on appeal to the Court of Appeals for the federal circuit. As you indicated the FDA recently denied our petition and related petitions filed by Bio and Torpharm. We are looking at our legal options and we continue to believe that FDA cannot rely on our proprietary data to approve the application.  

So in answer to your question, yes, we do intend to challenge the FDA's decision. Importantly, the FDA did confirm that the Doctor Ready product would not be AB rated. And therefore, could not be automatically substitutable for Norvasc. So even if Doctor Ready prevails in the patent litigation, and even if it it's application is approved by the FDA it would not be AB rated and therefore could not be automatically substitutable for Norvasc. Now, even though the FDA denied our petition on legal grounds, the agency did say in their decision that there may be significant policy issues with their own process.  

FDA acknowledged that the types of products at issue, New Salts, do not provide any new therapeutic benefit and may undermine incentives for innovation and they have therefore called for an examination, a re-examination of their policy and we will continue to urge the agency to modify their position. Separately in the patent litigation against Doctor Ready, the trial court held that the extension of our patent term out through 2006 only covers the specific salt form that we market as Norvasc; and that Doctor Ready's alternative salt form would not infringe. We strongly believe that decision was wrong and have appealed to the court of appeals, the case was argued on July 9 and a decision is expected sometime this year.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: The 505 B 2 decision was disappointing, but one that left a very large welcoming home for us to continue to fight going forward. I will ask Pat Kelly to comment on Lipitor's strength in the face of new competition. I must say this is pleasing but not surprising given the product characteristics. Pat?  

PAT KELLY, VP, PRESIDENT U.S. PHARMACEUTICALS, PFIZER: We're continuing to establish the position of Lipitor, that it has benefited from, for a long time in this market; by emphasizing that it, and it alone, is the power that you can trust to get your patients with elevated cholesterol to goal. And there are obviously two parts to that particular sentence. One is the power, ie. there is no product that's been demonstrated to be more effective in getting patients to goal. And then the power you can trust. Which indicates that based on fairly recent publication and reanalysis of all of the safety database around Lipitor, indicates that there is no increased incidence of any adverse effects as you go up the dosage range. And that the product in general maintains a very favorable safety profile.  

As it relates to the question on compliance, the thing to note is that for all product use medications, and for cholesterol medications in general, the compliance rate is abysmal. It needs to be much better. Is that people need to stay on these medications for as long as their doctor has prescribed them. We are currently working with just about every major pharmacy benefit manager as well as retail pharmacy chain to ensure that patients that begin on Lipitor are given the appropriate follow-up to ensure that they continue to take that medication. And we're seeing -- beginning to see some improvements. However, we have a long way to go so we will continue to keep at it.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Okay. Thank you, pat. With respect to Asenapine from Organon, it is correct that compound has been in phase two for a number of years. We, of course, had access to ought of that data, those studies are now complete. That gives us the understanding, the knowledge, and the confidence to proceed to phase three with what we believe potentially could be a best in class compound. Joe Feczko, do you have anything to add?  

JOE FECZKO, PFIZER: Just that during this time period we're working on developing a proprietary formulation that significantly increased bio availability and activity, so we're -- that is the formulation right now that we're taking forward.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Success with the new formulation was a key part of this. Okay. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Thank you, our next question comes from Timothy Anderson. You may ask your question and please state your company name.  

TIMOTHY ANDERSON, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Hi, Tim Anderson at Prudential. On the model, you know, you beat the quarter but you're saying that the full year number, '03, is the same, suggesting that there is going to be some higher spending in 4 Q. If I annualize that higher spending I'm just wondering what that kind of suggests about 2004. And kind of on the same topic, if I look at gross margins, they're about the same as they were in the second quarter. You know, as they were in the third quarter. And we're kind of wondering if that is roughly the rate we should use for 2004. All this basically comes down to me trying to figure out earnings in '04.  

Especially because you're not, you know, exactly reconfirming previous guidance, and I'm just wondering if the previous number could be at risk here, given all that's, you know, basically happening in the global pharma marketplace, Merq had talked about those things today, you guys started off the call by talking about the challenges as well, and just part of that, one last question is, is any part of the '04 kind of reanalysis have to do with something new on the raunt in generic timing? Thank you.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: We're in the middle of preparing our plans for '04. Those should be complete towards the end of this year. We expect to give you further guidance early next year. We are assuming validity of the Neurontin patent. We expect to prevail.  

Just remember on the spending rates between third and fourth quarter, the spending rate for the year remains the same. We're seeing additional savings in the third quarter, which we expect to be offset in the fourth. In part due to spending in response to competitive challenges. So I don't see anything in the spending run rates which would have any effect on '04 but you're -- your kind of underlying question here, we will get back to early next year. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Thank you the next question comes from Ken Araki, ask your question and please state your company name.  

KEN ARAKI, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Nomura Securities. Thank you for taking my question. I have a question, with the third quarter Lipitor sales and the Zoloft sales. It seems to be pretty strong. Did you have any specific inventor issue? Thank you.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Lipitor and Zoloft sales in the third quarter reflected underlying -- reflected underlying demand. We don't have incentives for trade distribution. In fact, many of you are looking at this issue and other companies I'm sure, we've always stood out in the sector as managing wholesale inventory levels to about .6 months it varies a little bit depending on new product launches and that's exactly where we are today, so there has been no effect on sales in the quarter by incentive programs which we've never had, and inventory stocking changes.  

KEN ARAKI: Thank you.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Thank you our next question comes from Richard Evans. You may ask your question and please state your company name.  

RICHARD EVANS, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, Sanford Bernstein. Thank you for taking the question. If I could just go one layer deeper. Broader than Lipitor and Zoloft in inventory, we've saw a number of products, that reported sales significantly in excess of prescription drugs, so if it wasn't a change in inventory, can you help us understand what are the other obviously potential variables for the major drivers there?  

And second just on Pregablin, now that we are about to see the filing, can you characterize what the delay was? What incremental information you provided to the agency? And what degree of comfort we can take that the safety profile in Pregablin is going to be similar to the drugs it will compete with. Thanks.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Thank you, Richard. On inventory levels, this is always an exceptionally difficult analysis when you're looking at growth rates, because growth rates are this quarter versus last quarter. And to fully understand that, you have to understand what happened this quarter but also what happened in the quarter a year ago. We don't actually match growth rates every quarter. We get ourselves to the targeted inventory levels every quarter. And we've accomplished that throughout this year.  

What you see in changes in growth rate may well reflect variations over whether we were trending down or trending up in the prior -- the prior year. But these are very minor changes. The one thing you might have missed in the quarter is there is a small price increase effect but that had worked through by the end of the quarter, and of course during the quarter, we were bringing down the Pharmacia inventory levels to harmonize them with our practices; but Peter is there anything else we missed here?  

PETER CORR, SVP SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, PFIZER: I think just to add a little bit to that, I think obviously you're absolutely right. If you look at the revenue growth for a number of our key products, in the U.S. in particular, in the third quarter and compare it to total prescription growth, it appears as if there is quite a gap. But to Hank's point, I think if you look on a year- to-date basis, through three quarters, that gap goes away, in particular when you take into account the price increases that Hank referred to. Going back to even a quarter ago, we had a number of our major products, Lipitor being a good example where we're seeing exactly the reverse trend; where TRXs were growing faster than the revenue in the second quarter. As you get later in the year which we obviously are now, things wash out on a year to date basis.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: But there is no impact on our reported numbers from changes in inventory that is anything significant other than the significant reductions in Pharmacia inventory levels. And o Pregablin, yes, we are filing the balancing act we did here, was between early filing; which we clearly could have done earlier, versus a more complete submission with broader -- broader claims and better supporting data. We now think we're at the point where we have a complete submission, we're very optimistic about the package we're submitting, and looking forward to approval with the best possible labeling. But Joe Feczko do you have anything to add?  

JOE FECZKO: Just that we, as you said, Hank, we are now filing for an add-on epilepsy, generalized anxiety disorder, and neuropathic pain claims and it was also to put together the-as discussed previously at the R&D conferences; put together the full carcinogenesis package that we were requested to put together, to answer some questions that the FDA had on our carcinogenesis study.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Okay. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Carl Seiden. You may ask your question and please state your company name.  

CARL SEIDEN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Thanks very much. And I'm with J.P. Morgan. A couple of questions, if I could. David, I think the company talked about cost synergies in the quarter of around $400 million and $600 million to date. And if I'm thinking about this right, if you do absolutely no incremental cost cuts over the course of the fourth quarter, you'll repeat that $400 million savings; and, thereby, already achieve your $1 billion target for the year, so I'm assuming there is upside to that, assuming that there is more and more every quarter.  

And I'm also curious whether or not you could tell us for the cost cuts to date, roughly how that shakes out over cost of goods, SG&A, and R&D. My second topic is just wondering when you're planning on filing a supplemental NDA for Lipitor for Ascot Cards or reversal. And last, if I could, I thought there was an expectation for us to get a little bit more explicit guidance on the clinical status of Exubera and while there was commentary on it I didn't hear anything new. I'm wondering if you have anything to add to that product status. Thank you.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: David on the synergies.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Your observation is right on. We have had close to $600 million dollars worth of cost synergies on a year-to-date basis. I think it is a great marker in terms of how well the integration is going, from an operating point of view. We have changed slightly our posture in terms of cost synergies for this year. If you note we say at least $1 billion, we would hope also to beat that probably by not that much; but again I think it is a great marker in terms of how well the integration effort is going.  

As you would imagine, just given the sheer scope of activity in terms of bringing the two companies together it is coming through on both the G & A, R&D, as well as the commercial side of the business. It is pretty pervasive in terms of types of things we're doing and doing successfully to realize the integration of the two companies.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Okay. And Joe Feczko on Lipitor SNDAs?  

JOE FECZKO: We've actually filed the Ascot data looking for label changes and as far as cards or reversals are concerned, those studies are just reporting out now. We just had the DSMV statement on cards and reversal will be presented at the American heart Association meeting. So until that's, really, those studies are more finalized we can't really submit them.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Remember those studies were stopped early, and when you stop a study early you announce it which is why you aware of it, but then you have to complete the data analysis, the publication, amend the SNDA filing. We've done that with Ascot, clearly cards and reversal we're trying to get in as soon as we can. And Peter you had some comments on the regulatory interactions on Exubera?  

PETER CORR: We're having some very positive interactions with the regulators in the EU, in fact across the EU, and continue to interact positively with the FDA on this product. As we've mentioned, we have two year studies, controlled studies in type one or type two diabetics that's ongoing, we'll read-out soon; and then we have two additional large trials, one in type one diabetics and one in type two, 800 patients each; that will read-out at their two-year mark as well so we're working with how we would go ahead with the filing with all of that data and when that safety data will come in. And you know, it is different in the U.S. than it is in Europe. So we're working through those issues.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: So Carl, as soon as we're ready to file, we will let you know but it is looking positive. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Sisla Carmen you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

SISLA CARMEN, ANALYST, HIGHLAND CAPITAL: Yes, Highland Capital. Thank you. If you would comment a little bit, I'm seeing a little bit of some momentum in the-on Capitol Hill as far as open market access with some bills out there gaining momentum; not to necessarily have the Medicare bill, which we thought would happen, but possibly opening and reimportation issues. Just wondering what your thoughts were with what looks like to me a back doorway of price controls coming in and yet we still have nothing that addresses the access for the uninsured which is somewhere well over 60 million people and just wondering what your thoughts are from the hill.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: I will give you my thoughts on the hill but let me start by saying we, too, are concerned about access to medicine. And in fact, this is what underlies our Pfizer share card program. Where any low income senior, less than about two times the poverty level, can have access to a 30-day supply of any Pfizer medicine for a flat $15 fee, for each one-month prescription. And I think we're now up to 450,000 in that program. Is that the latest numbers? And I forget how many prescriptions.  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: 3 million.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: 3 million prescriptions to 450,000 low income seniors. So this is a very important program, having a very important impact in an area we, too, agree is critical; which is access to medicine. What is happening on Capitol Hill at the moment, on the Medicare bill, which does potentially include the reimportation issue, the -- it is in conference, as you know, having passed both the house and the Senate, the conferies is a good group, they certainly understand the issues they're very dedicated to getting legislation passed, very committed to incentives for innovation for the industry. They're meeting twice a day. Starting at 7:00 a.m. in the morning and again at 3:00 in the afternoon. They're making progress. A number of issues are being resolved.  

Their hope is to have a bill out of conference by the end of November, mid-November, late November, which could then be voted on. Now whether they can craft a bill which passes both the house and the Senate is as yet unknown. My guess is, it is going to be a very close issue. If that bill fails to pass, then I think we do face a challenge on some variation of an importation bill, reimportation, which is what people are calling this, would not be a problem for the industry, quite frankly, because most of these drugs are not manufactured in the United States, and exported and then reimported. They are manufactured elsewhere.  

In fact, you have seen from a recent FDA customs study, that 88% of the more than 1,000 packages they inspected, more than 88% were counterfeit or unapproved in the United States. So this is particularly bad policy, something that we would fight very aggressively on safety grounds, if none others; but you're correct, it is a back door attempt to import wage and price controls from countries like Canada and France. And that's something we also think is very bad policy.  

I'm frankly optimistic that given the energy going into the conference, that we will see a bill that will be enacted into law this year, which will resolve the importation issue. I think everybody recognizes it is time to put politics aside and put the patient first, and that seems to be happening; so I'm kind of optimistic about where we are. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. James Kelly, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

PAT KELLY: Thank you, Goldman Sachs. The question is on Inspira and on life cycle management which seems a little interesting given the launch is still pending. But when I take a look at the intellectual property around Inspira, the -- it seems that the patent on the molecule comes off in the next year or so, NC exclusivity comes off around 2007 and all of those points that Jeff talked about could come up pretty quickly here. What is the strategy on this product as well as getting Inspira itself alone into the CHF and hypertension market? Do we see it being combined with Accupril, I think you talked about ace inhibitors and calcium channel blockers, how should we see it in the next few years.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Pat, can you talk about the strategy here?  

PAT KELLY: Sure. We're quite excited about Inspira, given its recent approval by the FDA for use in congestive heart failure. And in fact, we are so excited that we have been able to accelerate our manufacturing schedule. So that we will be able to make this product available into the market sooner than we expected. Sometime we hope by the end of November. So we are putting the product out as fast as we possibly can.  

And we believe that because of the profound benefit, again to remind you of that, that it demonstrated a 15% additional reduction in morbidity and mortality, above and beyond standard-based therapy for this disease, means that this is an important product in the area of heart failure. So again, we're pushing it out the door as fast as we can get it made. It will be in the trade and available to physicians for their prescription by the end of this year at the latest. The patent status and the exclusivity status for the product is, as you have indicated, quite complicated.  

But we have every belief that we will be able to maintain exclusivity even under attack, as Jeff has already indicated, we believe through 2008, for this product. So again, we believe that given the benefit that it provides to patients, the rapidity with which we think we will be able to get it out in the market, we will be quite successful with Inspira going forward.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: There is of course patent restoration and possible pediatric extension issues here, so we're not done; but 2008 is a pretty good start. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Mara Goldstein you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

MARA GOLDSTEIN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: It is Mara Goldstein with CIBC World Markets. Two product related questions. The first is on Aromacin, since you mentioned it in the breakout on the your Q&A you can talk about what your follow-up studies are and how long in duration those studies are planned for? And then on Geodon, does the licensing agreement of Organon propose an FCC issue for Geodon?  

HENRY MCKINNELL: We're breaking up. You said is that the two, Aromacin and Geodon in relation to the Organon compound?  

MARA GOLDSTEIN: Yes, please.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Thank you. Joe on Aromacin.  

JOE FECZKO: We are continuing to study it in breast cancer and breast cancer survival; and in light of some of the recent, this question may be in response to I guess it was asked because of some of the recent publications in -- about recent stoppages and clinical trials with other related breast cancer therapies. We are also doing very long-term five-year studies, we're in discussion right now with the various steering committees on how the new data actually impacts on those study designs; but we're also looking at prevention, long-term studies of prevention of breast cancer after treatment with Tamoxifen.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: And Pat, on the Geodon status and the Organon compound strategy?  

PAT KELLY: Right. Well, the relationship, the partnership with Organon just recently announced anticipates that question. And indeed, it is also incorporates the fact that there is plenty of room, not only in this particular relationship, for both of these compounds. There is plenty of room in the marketplace for all compounds in this area, it is important to note that this is, even with novel therapies like Geodon and others, this is an unmet medical need.  

There is a substantial number of schizophrenic patients that continue not to demonstrate improvement on the existing agents. So we think there is a great potential for both of these products to happily coexist in this market and in fact our relationship with Organon allows for that coexistence.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: And I'm sure you haven't missed the point that labeling discussion is now under way with Geodon and our recent agreement with Organon underscore our seriousness of leading in this product category. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Thank you, Steve Scala, you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

STEVE SCALA, ANALYST, SG COWEN: SG Cowen, thank you. Several questions, first on Asenapine, it is still not clear what characteristics you saw in phase two that would make this best in class. Are these efficacy or side effect advantages. Secondly, it is not clear whether you will be recording sales of the product. And third, back on importation, should importation without verification be passed? Could drug companies be required to sell an unlimited amount to Canadian wholesalers or other intermediates, or would the industry still have the right to limit shipments as some are now doing?  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Okay. Phase two data on did.  

JEFF KINDLER: Without going into a lot of detail, because again we have to confirm a lot of work in the phase three program for filing, but the improved formulation that Organon developed gives better blood levels and improves efficacy than was seen with the previous formulation. Some of their head-to-head studies do point to being very, very competitive and best in class on efficacy and on the safety parameters. And like we were saying, Pat was saying before about the category, all these atypicals have slightly different receptor binding patterns, and because of that, different -- faced with different -- with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder seem to respond differently to some of these different medications. So we're very optimistic right now that the data to date will allow us to tease out these differentiation factors and have a best in class product.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: And I believe the accounting under the agreement is to report alliance revenue in proportion to the profit share that is in the agreement. With respect to importation, if I understood your question, Steve, we're kind of breaking out in sound reception here, I guess Congress could pass any kind of a law they wanted. I'm not sure that the Congress of the United States could take away our patent and trademark rights in Canada. That would be an interesting question. But ultimately, this is not about supplying unlimited quantities in Canada so they can be imported into the United States.  

Many of the web sites that claim to be Canadian, over 50%, in fact, are the ones we've looked at, are registered to fictitious persons and fictitious addresses in the United States and are registered in countries like Brazil and Belize and India. So you might think you're ordering these drugs from Canada, in fact they have nothing to do with Canada. We're also seeing some organized crime involvement in this traffic. And I think you will see in the series -- series of articles, the Washington Post is publishing, which reflects a one-year investigation of this. I think are you going to see this is pretty nasty business; and I don't think Congress, even given the political advantages that might be present here, could in any sense of good consciousness pass into law importation without the safety standards.  

Frankly, both as an agent and U.S. regulatory authorities the FDA and HealthCanada are calling for. So I wouldn't be too worried about a worse case example here. I think the politics of this are much more serious than the potential financial or revenue -- revenue impact. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Thank you, Ken Kulju you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

KEN KULJU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Yes, Credit Suisse First Boston. Just wanted to talk a bit more about your assessments on Cresstor's early entry into the marketplace. Has there been any change in your promotional message? Any early observations on the prescription update -- uptake would be helpful. And then just secondly, has there been any time line established for the movement of the CETP inhibitor into phase three? Thanks.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Let me address the last one first. I think we're going into phase three. That's one of the three we advanced into full phase three development in the third quarter. And it is the -- is in fact the largest phase three program that we, or anybody else, has ever entered into; so that one, clearly, we're making a major investment behind. Pat on Cresstor, early data which I understand is lagging Zetia so far?  

PAT KELLY: Yes, and I guess that would be an indicator to us, at least of initial marketplace interest in this compound. Again, as Hank just alluded to, the uptake on Cresstor is, so far from what we're seeing in the scripts, is at a rate that is less than Zetia just achieved in the marketplace, and beyond that, it is significantly less than the uptake seen for Lipitor when it launched several years ago.  

And I think basically that reflects a market-based reality that is setting in, which is that Cresstor might or might not offer some efficacy benefits; but there's way too much baggage that comes along with the product to inspire all the trial that would be necessary to generate greater movement in the new prescriptions. In answer to whether we're doing anything differently. No, we continue to do that which has gotten Lipitor to be the world's most frequently used prescription product, as well as number one lipid lowering agent, and that is, is that nothing offers the same optimal balance of effectiveness, and safety.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: And pat's comments on the early U.S. experience is very similar to what we've seen in the international markets. Where Cresstor has been on the market for six months or more and Karen, you have some of that data?  

KAREN KATEN: Yes, in the -- in Canada, where Cresstor has been on the market for six months it has achieved 2.3% of total RXs; in the U.K. after five months, 1.6%; in the Netherlands after six months, 5.4%; and that was the most successful market for Cresstor to date. And Pat just told you the U.S. experience. So the growth is fairly slow. And not overwhelming.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: But of course we've been telling you this for quite some time. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Mario Corso you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

MARIO CORSO, ANALYST, LEERINK, SWANN & COMPANY: Leerink, Swann & Company. A couple of quick questions. Is there any update on the Neurontin patent case? And in terms of the P&L in the third quarter, or at least the sales numbers, it looked like alliance revenue dipped quarter over quarter, I'm just kind of wondering what is going up within the makeup of alliance revenue on a go forward basis. And then another question on the Asenapine, how would you envision once this product gets approved slotting it alongside of Geodon or what does this mean for Geodon's fate? Thanks.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Jeff on the Neurontin patent?  

JEFF KINDLER: There really isn't anything new to report. The summary judgment motions are still pending. We have no indication when the court might rule on them, nor do we have a date for trial. The deadline for discovering -- for discovery concerning Apatex is March 1st and that discovery is continuing and the case proceeds.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Okay. David on alliance revenue, are you still digging for that?  

DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah, I don't think there is anything highly abnormal quarter to quarter with alliance revenue. You are going to get some variation quarter to quarter on the natural basis depending upon the mix of income we get from the various outstanding arrangements we have and the different natures we have, in terms of the contractual arrangement at the same time.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: And positioning of Geodon versus Asenapine; I guess my answer would be number one and number two. [ Laughter ]  

PAT KELLY: Well, or both number one. I mean again, I think as we've already indicated, this is a market that is marked by significant unmet medical needs, so there is plenty of opportunity we think for both these products and we think they will be both complimentary in the marketplace.  

KAREN KATEN: Let us look at the phase three data first before --  

OPERATOR: Thank you, Bert Hazlett you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

ROBERT HAZLETT, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: SunTrust, please. I have a couple of items. First on Geodon and the atypical class labeling, you've challenged FDA's request there. What path are you headed down with FDA? Second issue is Canadian importation. Is that affecting operations currently? And if so, if you have any quantification, that would be helpful. And last, just on CDP 870 for RA, I'm trying to gauge your level of corporate enthusiasm for that product, if you could comment, thank you.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Okay. Thank you. Geodon, class labeling, Joe?  

JOE FECZKO: Yeah, we've gone back to the FDA on the request for class labeling, and have disagreed with their analysis of the situation. And as they said, you know, there was very little data on Geodon to support that, that labeling. So we've gone back with a package of information we're pulling together to file with them, with the aim of having actually differential labeling on that issue. That will be going in shortly.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Let me just add to that. The FDA's decision on class labeling, as I understand it, was based on a VA retrospective study. Geodon was not in that study. And to the contrary, we have data which shows quite a different response with Geodon, so we think we we have very solid grounds for improved labeling with Geodon versus others in the class; and due to our sound problems here, I kind of missed your question on Canadian importation. Could you try again?  

ROBERT HAZLETT: Sure. Is that affecting operations currently? And if so, can you quantify it at all?  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Ian Reed's is here who managing that area. Ian?  

IAN REED, PFIZER: We believe the importation from Canada is minimal. It is around between 40 and 60 million prior to our actions to control supply. We expect to see it in single digits within a few months.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Forty to 60 million per year at the peak and bringing to down obviously because of the need to safeguard the supply of medicines in Canada. CDP 870, Joe?  

JOE FECZKO: Studies are ongoing. We are in the process of working with our partners at Celltech to analyze it. So it is premature right now to say, we're waiting for several studies to read-out.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Okay. We have time for one last question.  

OPERATOR: Our last question comes from Jami Rubin. You may ask your question and please state your company name.  

JAMI RUBIN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Morgan Stanley. Hank, I'm wondering if you could talk about how you do intend to fight the citizens petition issue with FDA. Since FDA turned it down presumably they're now free to go ahead and approve Emlodepine maleate, but if the appellate court decision upholds the lower district court decision, what are your options out there? And I kind of think this is an important precedent setting case for the industry and maybe you can comment on that as well. And I do think you had mentioned at one point that Waxman Hatch had -- was -- included the protection to salt versions of drugs and obviously the FDA is looking at it differently, thanks.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: Waxman Hatch says the patent should be extended for the product and all it's salts. It seems pretty clear to me what it means, the lower court didn't see it that way. That is what the appeal is all about and there is plenty of litigation between where we are today and resolution of this issue but Jeff, maybe a little more on the decision itself?  

JEFF KINDLER: Well, the decision just issued, and it was a denial of the petition by us as well as other parties-Bio and Torpharm. And I think everyone who was a petitioner in it has the intention of challenging the decision, and exactly when and how that is done is still under review. But we have every intention of challenging the decision in court. We have the right to do that. And this was, if you will, just the first round of this issue. So we will be pursuing that.  

In addition, the agency has invited the possibility of a public comment on the whole overall policy, which they themselves have questioned in their decision. So that's another forum in which to address this. And in addition to all that, we have the patent litigation going on. So there is quite a few legal avenues here. Not to mention, if it comes to that-legislative fixes and ultimately winning in the marketplace, if it comes to that. But I think we have quite a few more rounds of legal avenues to pursue before this is anywhere near over.  

HENRY MCKINNELL: And this is an important issue, not only for Pfizer, but also the industry. You're correct in that. And I think for that reason, where we are today will not be where we are a year or more from now. With that, we conclude today's conference call. Again, we appreciate your time and your support of Pfizer. Thank you all.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i257 : Pharmaceuticals
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031105dzam001gu
  


 HD
 Q3  2002  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
6,810 words
   PD
16 October 2002
   ET
05:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Thank you, Dr. McKinnell. You may begin. 

   TD
 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PFIZER: Thank you. Hello, everyone. And welcome to Pfizer's third quarter 2002 conference call and webcast. I'm Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO here today in New York with members of Pfizer's leadership team. It's good to have all you have with us as we discuss another solid quarter for our company. Many of you will have questions, and we'll get to those shortly, but first I'd like to offer some brief observations on the quarter and then I'll ask Karen Katen, President of the Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group to discuss the performance of our major products and then David Shedlarz, our Chief Financial Officer, to review our financial results and future expectations. As the numbers indicate, Pfizer again did well. During the quarter, we delivered double-digit increases in revenue and in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. While doing so, we sustained our investments in product support and R&D. Investments that are necessary for strong future growth. 

 The strength, quality and consistency of earnings as well as our strong future prospects continue to differentiate Pfizer from others. And that performance also positions and empowers us to continue our vital work of finding cures and saving lives worldwide. To my many Pfizer colleagues, I say congratulations for this quarter's results and thank you for the dedication and hard work they reflect. I also commend the Pfizer Pharmacia integration teams that have been working on integration planning. Regulatory reviews of our proposed acquisition of Pharmacia are proceeding well and the transaction remains targeted for completion by year end. Now to comment on our current and anticipated product portfolio, Karen Katen. 

 KAREN KATEN, PRESIDENT, PFIZER PHARMACEUTICALS GROUP, PFIZER: Thank you, Hank. Good afternoon, everybody. It was indeed a good quarter with the strong growth of our pharmaceutical business driven by the breadth and depth of of our portfolio and by our performance within and across markets around the world. Today the Pfizer logo appears on 8 of the world's 30 largest selling medicines, more than any other company. 9 of our products are expected to reach -- to each contribute more than $1 billion dollars in 2002 revenues. And worldwide in the quarter, 11 products representing 82 percent of the company's human-pharmaceutical revenues grew a combined 17 percent. Our success is due to the medical value of our products and our ability to both expand markets and gain share through the performance of our medical marketing and sales organizations. And I'm pleased to note that the quarter saw solid progress on all those fronts. 

 For example, last week, the independent steering committee of a major clinical trial involving Lipitor announced its decision to stop the Lipitor portion of the trial earlier than expected because initial results showed patients receiving Lipitor had significantly fewer fatal and non-fatal heart attacks as well as stroke. Celebrex and Bextra, Pfizer and Pharmacia's COX-2 specific inhibitors for arthritis and pain, have extended their lead over competition. Bextra and Celebrex together accounted for 24.3 percent of audited monthly new prescriptions among the US non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs during the month of August, and in July Bextra was recommended for approval by the regulatory authorities in Europe. In August, the FDA approved enhanced labeling, making Zoloft the only selective seratonin reuptake inhibiter indicated for long-term maintenance treatment of the previously indicated anxiety disorders: panic disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Breva, as you all know, is the first once-a-day inhaled bronco-dilater treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Breva has now been launched in 10 countries including Germany and the UK, and in September an FDA advisory committee recommended US approval. Breva was discovered and developed by Boehringer Ingleheim and will be co-promoted worldwide by both Boehringer Ingleheim and Pfizer. Vfend was launched in the United States in August and in 6 European countries in September. 

 Vfend, as you know, is an important new treatment for acute invasive aspergelosis and other rare but serious fungal infections. Currently we are in the process of rolling out 6 new products recently approved in the US and/or the European Union. Vfend, Geodon, Bextra, Spiriva, Relpax and the most recent, Rebif, for multiple sclorosis, which we are co-promoting with Cerrono, the discoverer and developer of this important compound. In 2002 we anticipate completing regulatory filings for the dual therapy agent combining Lipitor and Norvasc, the world's leading cholesterol lowering antihypertensive medicine and for the use of a darafenacin in treating overactive bladder. In 2003 we expect to complete regulatory filings for the use of pregabalin in neuropathic pain, epilepsy, and generalized anxiety disorder. And advanced stage clinical studies are continuing for several agents, including capravirine for HIV/AIDS, lasofoxifene for osteoporosis and other indications, and Exubera, an inhalable form of insulin under co-development, co-manufacturing, and co-marketing with Aventis with the participation of Inhaled Therapeutic Systems. 

 In sum, these are busy and challenging times. But for Pfizer, these are also times of significant accomplishment and great opportunities. And now David Shedlarz. 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PFIZER: Thank you, Karen. The third quarter maintained the momentum that is has distinguished Pfizer. The total revenues up 12 percent and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding certain significant items and merger related costs, up 15 percent. We're especially pleased with the quality of earnings growth given the impact associated with the unusual low level of operating expenses in the third quarter of last year and the negative impact of foreign exchange. Low changes in foreign currency rates favorably empacted Third Quarter total revenue growth by 2 percent or $133 million, the effect on earnings was unfavorable due principally to its significant negative impact on cost of sales. 

 Looking forward, we expect strong Fourth Quarter diluted earnings per share of 47 cents up 38 percent from continuing operations, excluding certain significant items and merger related costs. This growth reflects continuing double-digit revenue growth at current exchange rates as well as a favorable comparison with the unusually high expense level of the fourth quarter of last year. As a result, for full year 2002, we expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle, certain significant items, and merger-related costs, of $1.58 up 21 percent. Moreover, we anticipate double-digit full-year 2002 revenue growth at current exchange rates, margin improvements, and investments and product support in R&D, which is expected to be about $5.2 billion for the year for research and development. We also expect that the Pfizer Pharmacia combination will be non-dilutive to adjusted earnings per share in 2003 and 6 cents accretive in 2004. Of course, I need to remind you that this afternoon's discussion includes forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2001 annual report on Form 10-K and our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, if any. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Thank you, David. Let me wrap up our formal comments today by repeating the headline of this morning's release which captures the essence of this quarter: Pfizer announces strong third quarter results, reaffirms positive outlook for full year 2002 and beyond. And now we are ready to respond to any questions you may have. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. If you would like to ask a question, please press Star 1 on your touch-tone phone. Our first question comes from Tim Anderson. You may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 TIM ANDERSON, PRUDENTIAL: Tim Anderson at Prudential. Couple of questions. When can we expect to get -- or I guess can we get an update on the timing and potential outcome of a District Court ruling on Neurontin, which seems like it could come any day as I understand it. And pregabalin, when might we learn when you guys will file exactly in the US? I know you said 2003 but I'm wondering when that might be narrowed, and the third question is on Yamanuci, I believe they used to have options on certain Siril pipeline drugs, does that survive the merger with Pharmacia? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: On the Neurontin update, you'll learn just as soon as we do, this does depend on the judge taking action. What we have learned recently is the November hearing, which we had talked about at earlier sessions, has been cancelled. So that almost certainly will push any development in this case into next year sometime. We have announced already the pregabalin filing: March in the EU and shortly thereafter in the United States. And ask Peter Foral to comment on the Yamanuci rights to the Siril pipeline. 

 PETER FULLER, PFIZER: It does have rights for some period of time. I believe it's another year in the discovery early development pipeline but that is restricted to Siril products only, the former Siril potential products. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Thank you. 

 TIM ANDERSON: Thank you, Tim. 

 OPERATOR: Len Yafter, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 LEN YAFTER, BANK OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Len Yafter, Banc of America Securities. Could you just review with us, David, the foreign exchange impact in terms of when the dollar was much stronger? It seems obviously to have a negative impact on revenues. Was it then positive on cost of goods and actually a contributor to overall earnings, or is there something about a mismatch between inventory and sales this quarter that if the dollar stays weaker like it looks like it will for three quarters you will actually start to receive an earnings benefit in addition to a revenue benefit? 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ: Let me first state that what the impact of foreign exchange is on various parts of the statement of income. When there was a strengthening of the dollar, that served to reduce the dollar value of revenues that were being generated abroad. At the same time it served to reduce the expenses that were being generated abroad, as well. Now that we have a weakening of the dollar, it's benefitting the revenue line, but it's causing expenses to be higher. The unusual impact of foreign exchange on inventories has to do with the need to revalue the inventories in the international community to reflect the significant change in foreign exchange. It means in the last quarter and probably in the next quarter we'll have a relatively large negative impact on the performance of the company as we bleed out these inventories and sell them into the trade and then thereafter foreign exchange stays where it is, we will continue to benefit on a net basis. But I also want to highlight the fact that we have included these impacts in our forecasts for the full year of $1.58 and 21 percent growth in earnings per share. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Len, this is not easy to understand but maybe the easiest way to kind of get a grasp of it is in any month that exchange rates change, revenues are translated at the new rate in that month. So the impact on revenue is immediate. The to impact on product costs comes through inventory. So we are matching the cost of the inventory which is products received over the last 6 months or so on average against those revenues. So essentially, there is a lag. There is a beneficial impact on revenue from a weakening of the dollar or strengthening of foreign currency, but the cost impact is still being averaged over the 6-month period. So there is a little a bit of mismatch. 

 LEN YAFTER: Great. Thank you very much. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Mm-hm. 

 OPERATOR: [INAUDIBLE] Marigold, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 MARIGOLD, CBIC MARKETS: Yes. Thank you. It's [INAUDIBLE] Marigold with CIBC World Markets. Two questions. The first on Bextra and the potential label change. I'm wondering if you can maybe characterize what you expect will be change within the label and where it might fall, and then a clarification on the Norvasc-Mylan suit. If I recall, there are other generic manufacturers who have filed who you have responded to. Can you just correct me on that if I'm wrong? 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ: I'll ask Joe Peshco our head of development and medical to comment on the Bextra label. 

 JOE PESHCO, HEAD OF DEVELOPMENT AND MEDICAL, PFIZER: Yeah, Pharmacia is on the lead on this and we are working with them and there's negotiations going on with the FDA right now. That's exactly the discussion that are going on. And we just submitted some more documentation on epidemiological studies to them. So we're really in the midst of the label discussions with them. -- and can't comment any further. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: And Mylan is claiming that the Norvasc patents are invalid. But they presented no new information that wasn't reviewed by the patent office when those patents were issued. So we think that suit is without merit. 

 OPERATOR: Barbara Ryan you may ask your question and please state your company name Barbara Ryan your line is open. (Pause) -- Barbara Ryan, your line is open. 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ: Hello, Barbara... (Pause) 

 OPERATOR: Steven Tyke, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 DAVID RYSINGER, MERRIL LYNCH: Actually, this is David Rysinger from Merrill Lynch. Two questions. First, could you provide an update on the asbestos litigation? And second, and this might be for Karen, could you talk about the timeline for inhaled insulin and what we should be expecting over the next few years? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Okay. On asbestos, our general counsel is on an airplane, unfortunately, we couldn't patch him into this call. Except for small changes in the number of cases, there is nothing really new there. We still believe any liability is covered by -- by available insurance. So we see no real liability there. On inhaled insulin, maybe Peter would be the best -- 

 PETER FULLER: Yes. David, with inhaled insulin, as you know, we sent a press release out earlier this week and going forward, what we are doing is we're in discussions with regulators about what is needed. There is no issues around the efficacy of this agent. There is a small 1 to 2 percent change in pulmonary function which we saw only in the Phase 3 trials. We are doing additional studies which are ongoing if both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetics using very sophisticated approaches to really define whether that 1 or 2 percent change is or is not a major issue. We don't believe it is. And the reason we don't believe it is, is that we have interim results from 1-year control data in Type 2 diabetics that shows no progression of the changes. And actually, with one of the end points, PLCO, it actually looked even slightly better with Exubera treatment for 1 year versus sub q insulin. So we just want to be sure relative to safety and we'll be discussing and are discussing it now with the regulators about the timing of the submission. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: The point we're satisfied we can answer any safety questions or concerns, we'll file. 

 DAVID RYSINGER: Great. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Ken Coldure,you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 KEN COLDURE, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Yes. Credit Suisse First Boston. Two product questions. First, on Zithromax, you are entering a big quarter for that product line. Do you expect the entry of generic Augmentum to have any impact on relative sales uptake moving through '03? And the second product question was just on Norvasc. Could you review the European patent situation for that drug? Thanks a lot. 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ: Zithromax, Karen 

 KAREN KATEN: It's doing extremely well. It appears that flu season has begun, and we don't anticipate too much of an impact with Augmentum, with the generic because Zithromax has faced generic competition for years and done well. And we launched the try packs last month and that's having good market acceptance. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: And on Norvasc in Europe, there are two sold, one patent of which is beginning to expire this year or next year, further patent expireees by '04. The salt we are marketing however is patented well into the end of this decade. Now, whether the expiree of a salt that we're not marketing allows generics to come on the market is an open issue. As of yet, there are no generics in Europe. 

 KEN COLDURE: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Barbara Ryan, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 BARBARA RYAN, DEUTSCHE BANK: Deutsche Banc. Good afternoon. My question has is really for Karen. If we look at the statin market, it appears that from a new prescription perspective, the numbers look much flatter than we would expect to see at this point in time. Actually, Lipitor is certainly outpacing the rest of the group. And I wonder if you could just talk to us a little bit about what you're hearing in the context of that market, if there is increasing amounts of that, that are not captured by the audits, just to give us some perspective on what you see happening. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: That's for the purpose of those who may not know the numbers just review the numbers, through September the market is up 10 percent, Lipitor is up 13 percent in the month. Market is up 12 percent, Lipitor up 13 percent. It is less than we would expect. 

 KAREN KATEN: We would fully expect it to be more. It will begin to take off again, especially driven by some of the new data that's coming out from Ascott. That obviously changes the -- vastly increases the market potential for statins and for Lipitor specifically. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Those who should be treated in the United States only a third are actually treated. So there is lots of opportunity for market expansion here. We, too, would expect it to be higher. 

 BARBARA RYAN: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: CJ Sylvester, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 CJ SYLVESTOR, UBS WARBURG: UBS Warburg. Couple of questions. With the comments on darifenacin, is it fair to say FTC is not concerned with any issues [INAUDIBLE]? And secondly, David, everybody in this space or I guess everybody in the market has underfunded pensions. Is there anything you are doing specifically that's having an impact on the P&L this year for the pensions going forward? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Darifenacin is still under review by the Federal Trade Commission. They haven't yet come to a conclusion but obviously looking at the market share of Detrol and the pending entry of darifenacin which we expect to file by the end of this year, we do expect further discussions on a potential overlap there. And there's been no determination yet by the FTC whether that will require divestment or not. David, on pensions? 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yeah. Your observation is correct right across the board. The pension funds have been hit pretty hard as most of us have been as individuals in terms of what's transpired in the equity marketplace. That's been the experience over the course of the last couple of years. On the other hand, you have to be careful to isolate the qualified plans as well as the pension assets and in that regard, there is a pretty good match between our accumulated benefit obligation and the accumulated benefit -- and the pension asset value itself. Having said that we might take a look at putting additional funds into the pension plan. We are not required to do so. Some other companies are. That would be fully discretionary on the part of the company. But we may choose to do that. 

 CJ SYLVESTOR: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: David Moskowitz, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 DAVID MOSKOWITZ, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: Yes. Thank you. It's Friedman Billings Ramsey. First question is, could you give us a sense of the timeline for a launch of Bextra in the EU? And in addition, could you talk about the further toxicity data that we are looking for on pregabalin with the FDA, thank you. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Bextra will be launched after we have approval and we don't forecast approval dates. So that will depend on final approval and Peter, with respect to pregabalin? 

 PETER FULLER: Yes. In terms of the basic studies, again, these are not clinical studies. The basic studies to evaluate the mechanism, further evaluate the mechanism of the emangio sarcomas which occurred in the first mouse studies. They want to understand the mechanisms more thoroughly, and we expect to have that data done and completed within the next few months. 

 DAVID MOSKOWITZ: Thanks very much. 

 OPERATOR: David Buck, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 DAVID BUCK, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Yes. It's Buckingham Research. Thank you. Just on Norvasc, we notice that there was a docket filed at FDA related to the NDA filed by Dr. Readies from lodopine or Norvasc. Can you give an update on that litigation where that stands and that was it. Thank you. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Dr. Readies' claim for those of how haven't followed the litigation is that when under Hatch-Waxman the patent was extended, it did not apply to the product and its salt. Unfortunately for Dr. Readies, the legislation says the patent extension will apply to the product and all its salts. We believe his claim is absolutely without merit and will go nowhere. 

 DAVID BUCK: And just if I could get a roundup of how many generic filings you have including Mylan and Dr. Readies'? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: This is a game the generic companies are playing. There are probably 2 or 3. I don't have the list in front of me but there's probably a couple of people taking a shot at us hoping they get lucky. 

 DAVID BUCK: Okay, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Sam Sabar, you may ask your question and please state your company name. Your line is open. 

 SIMON ULTCHES, KBC: Hi, this is actually Simon Ultches at KBC. Just two quick questions for you. Regarding the status of the safety reevaluation of Celebrex in France, could you comment on where that reevaluation is at at this time? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: I think actually France has requested a European medecines agency review of Celebrex, at around the same time the agency provided an approval for Bextra. So Joe, maybe you can comment on where that is? 

 JOE PESHCO: That's just an ongoing review of Celebrex and all the COX-2s in Europe actually, and we have submitted data that's under review right now so it's a process to look at various labeling across the COX-2 -- 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: We don't really know what that review is focused on. We can't imagine that Celebrex, where the growing database is continuing to confirm efficacy and safety. 

 SIMON ULTCHES: Okay. Great. And second question is also a status check. Can you comment on where the Aniston-Alabama-PCB litigation is at? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: General counsel isn't here. So I don't think we can really comment beyond what's already in the public record. 

 SIMON ULTCHES: Okay. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: That's covered in our latest 10-Q and will be covered again in the coming 10-Q. I don't know of any change, actually. 

 SIMON ULTCHES: Okay. Great. Now, I assume you don't envision either of these having any impact on the timing of your merger with Pharmacia? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: No. It will not. 

 SIMON ULTCHES: Great. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Keith Maher, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 KEITH MAHER, WPG FARBER FUND: Yeah. Keith Maher, WPG Farber Fund. Just two questions. Just follow-up on that, the question regarding the Bextra label. What was that for, is that for the due doctrine letter that went out about Steven Johnson Syndrome? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Yes, it is, that is correct. 

 KEITH MAHER: And then do you regarding that point, do you think that's going to have an impact from a marketing standpoint at all or how are you looking that? And that's the first question. The second one is really regarding the Cerrano agreement to sell Rebif in the US. Are you seeing any results to date and then what are your expectations for sales into 2003? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: The Bextra label, Joe? 

 JOE PESHCO: Well, the marketing -- we don't know what the label is going to show you. So it really depends on what we finally negotiate. That's going, you know, we're in discussions with the agency right now. We have submitted some more information to them. So we are not sure really what the final label is. Until we get that, it's hard to say what kind of impact it might have. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: And Pat Kelly, Rebif? 

 PAT KELLY, PFIZER: Well, as you are away, I hope, we are -- our involvement with Rebif with our colleagues from Cerrano began in earnest earlier this month. So it's a little early for us to be able to tell what impact we have had. All I would note is that the product itself as a result of not only the great benefits it provides but the great efforts that Cerrano has put into it already is off to an excellent start in the US market. And we hope to only be able to accelerate the great progress already being made. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: And Rebif scripts in September were up to 8.9 percent and we are looking eventually for market leadership here. 

 KEITH MAHER: Great, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Brad Wilde, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 BRAD WILDE, CITIGROUP: Yes. Citigroup. Hi. The other day, Johnson & Johnson spoke about a program for steps that they have been implementing to smooth out inventories at wholesalers to maintain what they consider normal inventory levels of approximately 3 to 4 weeks. And I was wondering, has Pfizer implemented any changes with the way they deal with wholesalers and if so, what would those changes entail? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: You look at inventory levels across the various companies in the industry, there is quite a wide range. We have consistently for many years been at the bottom of that range. We have not changed our practices. We have always managed wholesaler inventories to a normal level of -- I wouldn't even say 3 to 4. It's in the kind of 2 to 3 range in our case. And we've not made any changes. So we're I think on the bottom end of the range here. 

 BRAD WILDE: Great, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Larry Smith, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 LARRY SMITH, GERARD KLAUER: Yes. Larry Smith, Gerard Klauer. The generic drug companies seem to be challenging the patents of many products which we felt have had strong patent protection. This applies not only to Neurontin and Norvasc but also other products. You noted in your press release today that Mylan in challenging Norvasc didn't cite any prior art. And you alluded to the Dr. Ready challenge as being somewhat spurious. I'm wondering what's at work here? Is it just the sheer amount of money that they have? Is it possibly the fact that because patent expirations are dropping sharply in 2003 and 2004 that they are playing to investors with these challenges? But to what extent should we think that the intellectual property of the industry is more challenged today than it might have been -- than we might have thought 2 or 3 years ago? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: That's a really good question, larry. And to be honest, I don't really not answer to that question. Clearly, there are more challenges from the generic industry. We don't believe, based on our own knowledge of our patent history and the claims being made, that these cases have any value. And in fact, in the cases that have been adjudicated, the judges don't find any value to these claims. So I don't know what's motivating them. But hopefully their lack of success in several instances here, and hopefully a few more in the future, will discourage them. Now, the facts are these are kind of free shots. They get to take a chance. If they get lucky and some judge rules in their favor, they get a big payday. And if they lose, there is no consequences except for a modest amount of legal fees. So this is -- this is a slight perversion of our legal system and there is no consequences to losing. So I'm hoping there will be enough positive outcomes for the research-based industry that the generic industry will conclude this is a fool's errand. 

 LARRY SMITH: Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Don Lusik, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 DON LUSIK, BOSTON PRIVATE VALUE INVESTORS: Yeah. Hi, Don Lusik, Boston Private Value Investors. It's an R&D question. It looks like like the R&D budget is slowing down year-over-year. Just wanted to see if you can make a comment on that. And give us an idea of what it might look like with Pharmacia in that -- and then do you expect the trend to continue? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Yeah. We expect our full year R&D spending this year to be $5.2 billion with Pharmacia. I think that I number would be 7.2. I think it's 7.2. There are some quarter to quarter fluctuations almost always due to some strange things that happened last year, so I wouldn't look too carefully at year-to-year growth rate. That's one of the reasons we have given you a full- year number. The number going forward is going to be a function of our review of both development candidates in the 2 companies' pipelines and we haven't yet looked at the earlier stage pipelines. There will be some savings from the total, but we don't yet know what that number is. 

 DON LUSIK: All right, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Stavros Alfons, you may ask your question and state your company name. 

 STAVROS ALFONS, SAND'S POINT PARTNERS: It's Sand's Point Partners. Just a quick one. Given the new product introduction of lexipro (phonetic) into the antidepressant market have you seen, you know, the franchise cutting into your Zoloft market share? And if so, can you just highlight what you plan to do combat that entrant into the market and continue to maintain and even gain Zoloft share in the antidepressant market? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Pat Kelly who heads our US business? 

 PAT KELLY: Well, the short answer is that it is indeed true that lexipro, a not much different version of selexa (phonetic) has marched on to the US market but the answer to whether it's affecting Zoloft is no. Which I think the script data as well as the revenues that we're reporting on Zoloft in the US demonstrate is that we continue to see strong growth of Zoloft which is the most prescribed SSRI in the US marketplace, and we have high expectations that with the increasing expansion of the utility of the product, as noted in the release, by unique long-term data, by the addition of other and further claims and uses for the product, we think we continue to extend a lead over the marketplace in both effectiveness as well as usefulness that will offset any potential challenge from lexipro or anyone else. 

 STAVROS ALFONS: So the SSRI market is certainly an important market to Pfizer still and one that you guys plan on continuing to market in very agressively. 

 PAT KELLY: Absolutely. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: The answer is yes. And to put this in context, in September, lexipro generated 70,000 new prescriptions. 70,000. Zoloft was just short of a million. So it's in a different league altogether and Zoloft continues to gain share both in the month and year-to-date. 

 STAVROS ALFONS: Great, guys. Congratulations, and good job there. Thanks. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Jamie Rubin, you may ask your questions and please state your company name. 

 JAMIE RUBIN, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Morgan Stanley. This is a question for Peter. I was wondering if you could provide us the status update on avasomibe [phonetic], and secondly on the CETP inhibitor, which continue to be in Phase 2 studies, when you plan to move into Phase 3, and what type of studies are being contemplated. 

 PETER FULLER: Your first question related to avasomibe (phonetic). As you know, we indicated that there was a study using positron emission tomography to look at flow. And did not show a particularly robust outcome. However, patients with coronary artery disease treated for -- with avasomibe at the original protocol was for two years. They are now being evaluated at 12 months, some patients are at 12 months. Some are at 18 months. Some are at 2 years using intravascular ultrasound. Those studies should complete later this quarter, the first part of '03. The CETP inhibitor, it's proceeding very well, and the Phase 2 studies are continuing. We want to make sure we get the dose right, the end points. We would be moving to -- probably into Phase 3, and again we'll make that decision based on our discussions with the regulators at end of Phase 2. Expectations are that that would be next year. 

 JAMIE RUBIN: Are you developing it a fixed combination dose with Lipitor as well as a monotherapy? 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: This will be a fixed dose only. 

 JAMIE RUBIN: Fixed dose only. Okay. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: It's almost unethical to do the studies separately. 

 JAMIE RUBIN: Okay, thanks. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: For those of you who don't follow our pipeline all that closely, the CETP inhibitor is a whole new approach to raising the level of HDL or good cholesterol, which we believe has a more profound impact on cardiovascular risk than reduction of LDL even, and the 2 together should mean a very significant impact on cardiovascular risk. 

 OPERATOR: Burt Handler, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 BURT HANDLER, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thank you, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Regarding Zyrtec, we saw somewhat modest growth this quarter. Are you experiencing any inventory destocking or do you anticipate it in the wake of OTC or generic Claritin? Second, were there any price increases for the quarter, and is the tax rate guidance still 23.5 percent for the full year? And under the excluded items, you took a charge regarding various litigation matters of about $25 million. Can you give us any additional clarity on what those charges represent and whether you expect any additional ones in the future? Thanks. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: The tax rate is the rate for the year of 23.5. 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ: Correct. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: Yeah, it 23.5 percent and that will be for the year. I don't quite understand your Zyrtec question. In the month we are up 28 percent and the market growing 8 percent year-to-date up 26 percent in a market growing 4. Zyrtec looks pretty good to me. 

 BURT HANDLER: Didn't say it was bad. We are just trying it find out whether or not you are expecting anything in the near future. 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ: Well, in OTC impact I guess -- There is a patent expiration for Claritin, veratidine (phonetic), that's expected by the end of the year, and there are previously announced plans of everybody including Schering-Plough bringing out OTC loradines (phonetic), but those have not yet occurred, and we strongly believe that Zyrtec will be able to withstand any impact on that. Again, because as we have seen in other markets, the expiration of competitive patents and the introduction of competitive OTCs does not have the impact on our own brands that it has obviously on the parent brands of the company involved. 

 BURT HANDLER: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: And now for our final question.... Our final question comes from Mario Corso. Please state your company name. 

 MARIO CORSO: [INAUDIBLE] Terms of Neurontin, with the case of the pushout until January, can you comment, is that a scheduling issue or is that more of a response to a motion, and then in the quarter, on the alliance revenue line Rebif and Spiriva are now alluded too. Was there an actual financial impact from either of those in that line in the quarter? Thanks. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: On Neurontin, I don't really know why the November hearing was cancelled. We do know, however, that the generics submitted another 5 or 6 motions for summary judgment. We have until sometime next year to respond to those. So as expected, things are taking their time in the courts. In the quarter, David, Rebif and Spiriva? 

 DAVID SHEDLARZ: Yes. There was an impact on alliance revenue. It was very modest, though. 

 HANK MCKINNELL, PHD: This would be the very early launches and the first month of Rebif, I guess. So it would be very small. 

 OPERATOR: With that question, we conclude today's conference call. Thank you all for being with us. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
monco : Pharmacia Corp | pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i2569 : Biotechnology | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i2576 : Cardiovascular Drugs
   NS
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c134 : Copyright | c23 : Research/Development | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021017dyag0025t
  


 HD
 PFE -  Q1  2002  Pfizer  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
7,171 words
   PD
17 April 2002
   ET
05:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 UNIDENTIFIED:  Good afternoon (inaudible). 

 HANK MCKINNELL, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PFIZER:  Thank you.  Hello, everyone, I'm Hank McKinnell, Chairman and CEO of Pfizer, speaking to you from our headquarters in New York City.  It's good to have all 330 callers with us today as we discuss another good quarter.  We issued our first quarter earnings release early this morning before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange.  As usual, we tried to make the release as comprehensive, detailed, and useful to you as possible but, I expect, there still may be a few topics and issues for which you have questions. We'll get to those shortly.  But, first I'd like to offer some brief observations on quarter then I'll ask Karen Katen, President of the Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Group to discuss the performance of our major products and then Dave Chedlars (ph), our CFO, will review our financial results and future expectations. 

   TD
 As the numbers indicate, this was a very good quarter indeed.  First quarter total revenues were up 11 percent in spite of a 2 percent impact from further strengthening of the US dollar.  Human pharmaceutical revenues were up 15 percent, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, plus we delivered diluted earnings per share of $0.39 per share on a comparable basis of 18 percent over last year. While the quarters earnings were strong, so were our investments in product support and R&D, investments that are necessary for sustaining this performance long term.  This quality and consistency of earnings, our ability to balance growth and investment, and our strong future prospects, all continue to differentiate Pfizer from others in this and other industries.  These attributes position as well to deliver continued strong results for 2002 and while highlighting the (inaudible) seasonalization (ph) for the next three quarters, which David will do in a minute, he'll also reaffirm our prior earnings guidance for the full year 2002. 

 Longer term, we are well positioned to achieve our mission of becoming the world's most valued companies to investors.  To my Pfizer colleagues world wide, I say congratulations for the quarters' results and thank you for the dedication and hard work they reflect.  And, now to comment on our current and future product portfolio, Karen Katen. 

 KAREN KATEN, PRESIDENT, PFIZER PHARMACEUTICAL WORLDWIDE:  Thank you, Hank.  Good afternoon, everyone.  The strong growth of our pharmaceutical business in the first quarter was driven by the breadth of our product portfolio and our products' performance around the world. Today we market eight of the world's 30 largest selling medicines, more than any other company, and five of these products achieved sales of over $500,000,000 in the first quarter.  World wide in the quarter, nine products, representing 83 percent of the company's pharmaceutical revenues grew an aggregate 17 percent.  This performance was reflected in the double digit operational revenue growth, achieved both in the US and large markets around the world. Revenues in Japan were ahead 17 percent, UK revenues grew by 30 percent, Italy experienced 15 percent growth, Germany revenues grew by 14 percent, (inaudible) ahead 27 percent, and revenues in Canada grew 17 percent. 

 While the growth across our portfolio and across many geographic markets is impressive, even more impressive is the fact that our products consistently outpaced the growth of the therapeutic categories in which they compete and the overall markets in which they compete. Our success is due to the medical value of our products for patients and our ability to both expand markets and gain shares, to the performance of our medical marketing and sales organization.  And, the quarters saw solid progress on all these fronts.  Lipitor continues to grow and at a rate greater than the cholesterol reducing market.  In Japan, for example, Lipitor has become the second largest selling statin, with IMS audited sales growth of 205 percent in the quarter, far surpassing market growth of just 4 percent. 

 Zoloft continues to outpace market growth in the top seven global markets.  Last month the filing was completed in the US for Zoloft's use in social phobia, a condition that affects approximately 10,000,000 Americans.  Bextra was introduced in the US in February, becoming the newest member of Pfizer and Pharmacia's portfolio of COX-2 inhibitors for arthritis and pain.  The US field (inaudible) was held just last week.  Bextra and Celebrex together have extended our market share leadership position in the COX-2 category.  Importantly, Bextra growth is not coming at the expense of Celebrex, but Celebrex share a weekly new prescription that actually increased since the trade launch of Bextra.  And earlier this month, Spiriva successfully completed the European mutual recognition procedure.  Spiriva has expected to be the first, once a day inhaled treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, that will be co-promoted with Bochringer Ingelheim, it's discoverer and developer. 

 Going forward means that we have to build on our leadership position, even in the face of competition,by investing in support of our innovative products and leveraging our great customer relationship. Forexample, Lipitor's decided strong performance today, still has enormous room to grow.  Lipitor has an extraordinary clinical profile, an outstanding efficacy and safety across it's full dose range, demonstrated by the more than twenty million patient years of experience, and documented in more than three hundred clinical trials involving more than forty-four thousand patients.  We will continue to reinforce the clinical data base for Lipitor through the completion of major in point study, which will appropriately expand the the utility of Lipitor for more patients. 

 A similar situation exists for Viagra, with 700,000,000 tablets sold and nearly 16,000,000 men treated,Viagra continues to reinforce the foundation of clinical evidence and publication, building upon it's track record of unequal efficacy and safety in multiple patient populations. 

 Of course we are also very busy with the slate of product development program. With fifteen new medicines filed or expected to be filed with regulatory authority during the 2001-2002 period.  Advance state clinical studies are continuing for Pregabalin, Exubera, Darifenacin, and dual therapy combining Norvasc and Lipitor.  Pfizer anticipates completing regulatory filing in 2002, for Pregabalin and neuropathic pain, epilepsy and generalized anxiety disorder and Darifenacin in treating overactive bladder. 

 The on-product performance, Pfizer also continues to be committed to developing innovative solutions forpatient's in need, such as our Diflucan donation program to HIV/AIDS affected patients in Sub-Saharan Africa, our healthy state comprehensive disease management program for Medicaid patients, now being implemented in Florida, and our project for living share card program for low-income Medicare beneficiary.  Given our product and organizational strength, and the many opportunities within our reach, we look forward to delivering continued growth in 2002 and beyond.    chedlars: 

 Our first quarter clearly maintained momentum. Pfizer 2001 double digit revenue growth was complemented by continued gross margin expansion, despite strong growth in SI & A & R&Dinvestments, an 18% increase in booted earnings per share, excluding the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle and certain significant items and merchant-related costs.  For the year 2002, we anticipate double-digit revenue growth with current exchange rates, margin improvements and the continuing investments in product support and R&D.  The case of R&D, continues to be forecasted at the investment level without 5.3 billion dollars for this year.  Mercury-related synergies for the year are expected to reach 1.7 billion dollars, plus we predict that 25% effective tax rate in 2002 for operations,excluding the cumulative effect with the change in accounting principle, certain significant items and mercury-related costs.  The strengthening of the U.S. dollar, decreased revenues in the first quarter by a162,000,000 dollars or 2.1%. 

 Despite the increasingly negative impact of foreign exchange, we remain comfortable that for our originaltargets for the year of double-digit revenue growth in diluted earnings per share, in the range of $1.56 - $1.60 on the same basis. 

 And now I'd like to address the topic that is nothing more than a matter of historical comparisons, that clearly merits additional comment.  This morning's release we highlight our expectation, that the growth the diluted earnings per share, excluding the cumulative effect of a changing accounting principle, with certain significant items, merger-related costs would be in the single-digits for the second quarter of 2002. 

 First, it is important to emphasize that this unusual pattern of growth in diluted earnings per share relative to the prior year, is expected to have no impact on full year performance.  You have again, as I just noted, reaffirmed our original earnings target in 2002.  And second, it is important to understand that this is a an anomalous second quarter growth rate which primarily reflects the impact of historical 2001 events.  Specifically, the abnormal pattern of quarterly SNIA & R&D expense seasonalization last year.  Especially, the low level expense levels in the second quarter of last year, and the effects of a reduction in the companies tax rate for the first half of 2001, taken in the second quarter of 2001.  Let me discuss each beginning with the abnormal pattern of 2001 expense  (inaudible).  2001 the approximate levels of  SINA (ph) and R&D (ph) expenses for the first through fourth quarters were  as follows:  first quarter 3.5 billion; second quarter 3.8 billion; third quarter 3.8 billion and the fourth quarter 4.7 billion.  Reflecting in part the normalization of activities following the integration  with  Warner-Lambert. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  With that (audio-gap) It makes the second year quarter earning per share growth comparison an especially difficult one and it makes the same comparison  of this years fourth quarter  especially easy one.  (inaudible) happens with no change, in our anticipated 2002 full year performance.  The difficulty of this years second quarter comparison is made even more difficult by the fact in the second quarter of 2001 we recognized the (inaudible) on earnings of the dowered adjustment in the effective tax rate for the entire first half of 2000 (ph).  Resulting in an especially low quarterly tax break for the second quarter of last year of 24.7 percent.  And another impact of these abnormal  seasonalization (ph) comparisons, is that we also expect significantly higher growth for earnings per share on the same basis for the fourth quarter of 2002.  Basically we have easy comparisons in the fourth quarter of this year, and tough comparisons in the second quarter of this year, relative to the prior year.  I trust this puts the situation in perspectives, but I would be happy to respond to any further questions, during the Q&A. 

 DAVID CHEDLARS (ph), CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PFIZER: Looking ahead now to 2003 and 2004 we continue to target double digit revenue growth and current exchange rates and average annual diluted earnings per share growth of 15 percent or better excluding the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principal certain significant items and merger related cost.  Of course I need to remind you that this afternoons discussion includes forward looking  (inaudible) actual results to different material, most projected  and as forward looking statements. The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in our 2001 annual report on form 10K and our  (inaudible) periodic reports on form 10Q and 8K, if any. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you David.  In closing and before with get to your questions, let me repeat the initial headline of today's earnings release which captures the essence of what we're trying to communicate. Pfizer announces strong first quarter results reaffirms full year 2002 outlook.  And now we are ready to respond to questions that you may have.  Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you, at this time if anyone has a question, please press star followed by one (inaudible).  Again, star one if anyone has a question.  Thank you Lynn Gaffe (ph)  you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 LYNN GAFFE (ph), BANK OF AMERICA SECURITY:  I was just wondering if you could give us an update on your expectations for Spiriva in the U.S. when it should be launched as well as how big you than that market is and how it will compete competitively especially (inaudible), a little bit of that market? 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you, Lynn.  Let me ask Pat Kelly, Head of World Wide Marketing (ph) to answer that question for you. 

 PAT KELLY (ph), HEAD OF WORLD WIDE MARKETING:  Reminding everyone that is an (Alliance) Product our partners (inaudible) who've handled the discovery development  (inaudible) filed in the U.S. in December of last year.  And if one was to apply normal  FDA action that would mean that our first possible information from FDA would be in December of this year, however, this particular portion of the FDA has been know to be relatively slow in terms of coming to final action.  So we think at this point it is difficult to predict, exactly when we would expect a U.S. Spiriva approval.  Now withstanding that we have great expectations because of the highly (inaudible) of chronic (inaudible) pulmonary disease sufferers in the U.S. and in fact around the world. There are hundreds of thousands, millions of patients around the world continuously suffer from this disease and for whom a once a day maintenance therapy for (inaudible) would be quite a benefit.  So we remain very optimistic about the market potential of this product. 

 LYNN GAFFE (ph):  Could you comment a bit on Europe for European approvals, too Pat? 

 PAT KELLY (ph):  European approvals have been gained in many of the European markets as we are completing mutual recognition of the product, and we expect to begin rolling out Spiriva in European markets in the third and fourth quarter of the year. 

 LYNN GAFFE (ph):  OK.  Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  European launches toward the second half of this year, U.S. hopefully in 2003.  A once a day product with significant benefit over the current goal standard in a large market we can make even bigger. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you very much. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you, Ken Andersen (ph), you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 KEN ANDERSON, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES:  Maybe for David, I think the world's, you know, become pretty used to Pfizer putting out consistent quarterly earnings growth and I wonder, you know, really what changed in '02 and I realized what you've said about spending being an anomaly in 2001 in terms of a pattern, but when I look back into 2000, as well as in 1999, they all, it always seemed to really kind of follow the same pattern as we did in 2001 so it doesn't really seem like that much of an anomaly and just traditionally, you know, (inaudible) stem levels are typically high for you guys over the last few years and why is that? 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  If you look back to even in 2002, what you see is relative to 2001.  It's an unusual level, low level of expenditures. You see usually about 25 to 26 percent of the total operating expenses in the second quarter and you saw about 23 to 24 percent last year. In part that's reflective of continuing to integrate with Warner-Lambert. You're right, the 4th quarter usually shows the highest levels of operating expenses.  In many cases that's the way the program activity usually pans out over the course of a year.  But, I will tell you, in comparison to many years, not only 2002 and 2000, but before that the level of expenditures in 2001 on a relative basis is very low. 

 KEN ANDERSON:  And, is this spending in anticipation, you know, maybe some accelerated spending in 2Q in anticipation of new competition coming to market? 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  In the growth rate in the 2nd quarter really has more to do with the low spending last year than it does any ramp up in expenses this year.  Now it is true we're launching a number of new products in the 2nd quarter, Bextra is out there for example at this point and we expect others before the end of the year, so there will be some increase in spending.  But, the predominant difference here is a comparison with an artificially low last year.  Now, to understand that, you have to realize what we were doing.  In the second half of 2000, we were shedding excess staff, we were consolidating the Warner-Lambert integration.  We probably overshot a little bit going into '01, we were rebuilding in the first half of '01 and got ourselves back on track in the second half of '02.  So, the first half of '02 really was a kind of spill over of integration related savings from the second half of 2000. 

 KEN ANDERSON:  Great, thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you, Mario Corso (ph).  You may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 MARIO CORSO (ph): (inaudible):  Not to beat a dead horse on the 2nd quarter issue, but given that in 2001 2nd and 3rd quarter levels of ST&A were about the same, in order to get to the quarterly pattern you're talking about, I mean I come up with a numerical number for the 2nd quarter of this year that's much higher than the 3rd quarter, which is fine but, I mean, is it fair to assume that there is some additional spending going on there to prepare for competition to Lipitor and Viagra?  And, then also, I'm assuming that there's no expected difference in sales growth in the 2nd quarter as opposed to any other quarters. 

 HANK MCKINNELL:  All of those statements are correct. 

 MARIO CORSO (ph):  Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you.  P. J. Sylvester, you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 P.J. SYLVESTER (ph), UBS:  Thank you.  Just to get off the 2Q subject for a second, in terms of this past quarter looks like Zoloft there was a buy in there and a run, Norvase, Acupril, I realize you guys to have some price increases but, typically, there hasn't been such, you know, large buy ins in front of that.  Is that true with the buy ins that you expect some sort of buy down in the 2nd quarter? 

 HANK MCKINNELL:  No.  That is not (inaudible), this year range from .5 to .7 of the month.  Last year they ranged from .5 to .7 of the month. You have to realize we manage wholesaler inventories very aggressively. You'll see numbers ranging up to 2  to 3 months in the trade for some of our competitors.  We try to manage within that .6, .7 range.  Each of our products this year is at the same level they were last year and there's no benefit in the 1st quarter or penalty to the 2nd quarter. 

 P.J. SYLVESTER (ph):  So the growth rates we've seen for Neurotin and Norvase, those are sustainable going forward in '02? 

 HANK MCKINNELL:  Okay.  Neurotin is an exception because of the surge in demand in 2000, 2001 we were struggling to meet demand with our manufacturing capacity and we were slightly low this time last year. We're now back to normal on Neurotin. 

 P.J. SYLVESTER (ph):  Thank you. 

 HANK MCKINNELL:  But, once again, that shouldn't penalize in any way the 2nd quarter. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you.  Steve Scully (ph), you may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 STEVE SCULLY (ph), SG KALIN:  I have two questions.  First, given the dynamics of the 2nd quarter, is it possible to narrow the earnings range for 2002 of $1.56 to $1.60?  Should we assume that the, perhaps mid to lower end of that range is more likely?  Secondly, regarding the (inaudible) switch of the antihistamine issue, on a January conference all, Hank, you mentioned that it's unlikely to occur until an FDA commissioner is in place.  I'm wondering if you still feel this is the case, given the recent movement by one of your competitors? 

 HANK MCKINNELL:  Okay.  On your first question, we're still comfortable with a range of $1.56 to $1.60.  We've only got one quarter here and one quarter does not a trend make.  The rest of the year obviously depends on exchange rates.  Frankly, I didn't believe we'd be looking at a $600 million  deficit from foreign exchange, and it will depend on the success of new products where we, as you're seeing from the first quarter results and I think you've seeing in some of the script data there may be some upside.  So as usual there's this collection of potentially positive versus the potentially negative impacts of the year, which we just don't know yet.  So I think the range of 156 to 160 is probably still a good range and I still believe the FDA not only won't switch (inaudible) do a (inaudible) switch  (inaudible) commissioner, but if they do switch we have right's of appeal and can drag that out for three and a half years or so. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you.  Ken (ph) (inaudible) you may ask your question, and please state your company name. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Yes. Good afternoon.  First up I wanted  to get a better feel for (Geodon and Ralpax) flavor for what we will see at the American Psychiatric Association meeting and what plans you have to jump start that franchise and secondly, could you just up date us on where (inaudible) as well as the (inaudible) program is in the pipeline. Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  I'll ask Pat Kelly to address the Geodon question. 

 PAT KELLY (ph):  On Geodon, based on a prescription data base that demonstrates that well over 600 thousand patients in the U.S. have been prescribed Geodon and having that data in hand as well as a comparison to the (inaudible) data base which demonstrates that we've seen no difference  in, in market experience versus that which was experience in clinical trial study.  That terms that means there has been no (inaudible) there's been no increase in sudden death, there's been no singular cardiovascular risk associated with Geodon.  More importantly, after all of those hundreds of thousands of prescriptions,  hundreds of thousands  schizophrenic patients have been brought back from the depth of devastating illness to productive life. 

 Geodon has just been accepted on the national VA formulary.  Geodon has just been made a first line therapy by a twenty-two state out rhythm project for schizophrenia and depression.  Just last month a revised FDA label on drugs that are contraindicated for use in Geodon has been distributed to psychiatrists, nurses, pharmacists and pharmacy data banks, causing all of them to revise their data bases as well as to revise their notion of where and when Geodon can be used. 

 At APA next month, you'll see us present more comparative data versus Viprexa, more comparative date versus J&J's Risperdol, as well as switch studies demonstrating how safely and effectively patients can be switched from both Risperdol and Viprexa to Geodon. All of these presentations will reaffirm that no product is more effective than Geodon  and certainly no product is safer than Geodon.  So, in general, our point of view is that the gloves are off on Geodon.  We believe in the unsurpassed efficacy of the product.  We believe in the unmatched safety and tolerability of the product and we believe equally that if you want to look, cardiovascular risk associated with the use of anti-psychotic drugs, we point you to Willie's Viprexa (ph) where just recently they've been re-labeled in the EU with a special warning on hypoglycemia and exacerbation of diabetes as well as in Japan where the government just announced two deaths in diabetics that were treated with Viprexa.  So I guess the net answer is that we have every reason to believe that we will be able to accelerate Geodon performance to where it belongs. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Pat, could you comment on the CNS sales force expansion? 

 PAT KELLY (ph):  Yes, we just recently began to further expansion of our U.S. specialty sales force in support of Geodon and, in fact, Zoloft (ph) as well which should be complete and in place by June of this year. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you.  And I'll ask Peter Core (ph), Head of Development, to comment on the Vassimi (ph) question and I missed the second one.  Did you get it Peter? 

 PETER CORE (ph), HEAD OF DEVELOPMENT:  Yeah.  The CETP (ph). (inaudible) 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  (inaudible) 

 PETER CORE (ph):  Thank you Hank.  With Evassimide (ph), we have completed the Positrone Emission Tomography (ph) study looking at coronary flow.  We have mixed results with that study.  So we are proceeding with the most important study and that is the Intra-Vascular UltraSound Study and rather than going the full two years of treatment with Evassimide, we are gonna go with some patients at one year, some at 18 months and some at the complete two year point.  And the Ivis (ph) follow-up studies should be completed hopefully by the end of third quarter and into the fourth quarter of this year and then we will know the pathway forward with this A-Cat Inhibitor Evassimide (ph). 

 The second question related to the CETP (ph) inhibitor CP529414 (ph). We're in phase 2B trials and we have a number of trials ongoing.  The results thus far indicate that we see HDL increases up to 70 percent (audio-gap) and higher at higher doses.  But at doses that we plan to go forward with, we would have HDL increases up in the range of 60 to 70 percent.  Combining CETP inhibitor with Lipitor on a reduction in LVL (ph).  So both a decrease in LVL and a corresponding marked increase in HDL. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  We finally find a superstatent (ph) 

 (audio-gap) 

 OPERATOR:  Thank you Jamie Reuben (ph).  You may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 JAMIE REUBEN, MORGAN STANLEY:  Morgan Stanley.  I'm sorry but I do need more clarification on this.  With respect to the second quarter, if you're saying this is just a timing issue, then the level of (inaudible) related to SG&A should not be higher than what you had initially banked or initially incorporated in your budget for the year.  Or am I correct, or is that you are assuming that you're spending more in SG&A?  That's the first part of my question.  And, if you are, where would be the offsets be to get to guidance (ph) for the year?  And the second part of my question is, gross margins improved 180 (inaudible) points this quarter.  Typically in the past, the gross margin the first quarter tends to be a good place to be for the full year.  So, I'm wondering if we should look to that magnitude of improvement for the full year. Thanks. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  David? 

 DAVID CHEDLARS (ph):  Yeah.  We're not changing the overall expenses levels that we're projecting before the full year.  Again, I think the magnitude of the impact and the seasonalization is something that may be under assessed.  If you take a look at the first half span of last year and total operating expenses, the comparison to the first and second half in comparison to each other, we spent $1.2 billion more in the second half of last year relative to the first half.  This is a major dislocating factor in terms of comparing expense growth and obviously, earnings per share growth. 

 So, it is largely a phenomena of these historical expense patterns and no, we have not changed in any dramatic way, the level of spend contemplated for this year.  In terms of gross margin, obviously being driven by a lot of factors which are highlighted in the release, including the product and business mix, as well as the impact of foreign exchange and other factors including our productivity initiatives.  And I wouldn't use the first quarter necessarily as indicative of the full year.  There's just too many moving parts in which to make that projection off of the first quarter, especially the business mix. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Jamie, on the full year estimate, the end of last year, beginning of this year, currently our rolling forecast for the year has been in the range of $1.56 to 1.60.  That has not changed.  Our forecast for the second quarter has always been the slowest growth for the year based on what happened last year.  Our assumption was analysts would adjust the second quarter to reflect the growth over last year.  That wasn't happening so we went out with our comments today to try to point you at the spending levels last year.  But this is not a change in our forecast in any way. 

 JAMIE REUBEN:  Okay, thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  It's an attempt to get you to change your forecast. 

 OPERATOR:  Thank you Steve Thai (ph).  You may ask your question and please state your company name. 

 thai|Steve|Thai||Merrill Lynch|m?:  Hi.  Merrill Lynch.  David could you talk about the expected cash flow this year for your company? Kind of where your cash balance has been and where it could be?  It seems like it's building up.  What kind of restrictions with pooling (ph) are you under with regard to share repurchase? 

 And then, also, could you just talk about generally, Hank (ph), what businesses you view as being strategic and important to the company versus those that are non-strategic, like Tetra (ph), during your portfolio?  And are we - should we be anticipating any changes in the second half after the more elaborate transaction (inaudible)?  Thanks. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  The (inaudible) from operations has been strong and is expected to continue to be strong.  As you know, Steve (ph), using some of that flexibility is not insignificant amount in terms of repurchasing our shares.  We announced the $5 billion share repurchase program last year.  As of the end of this quarter, we were close to utilizing about $4 billion of that $5 billion.  And, obviously, we've turned up the pace at which we're buying back shares. 

 You're also correct that we have some limitations in terms of follow-on share repurchase programs as it relates to the pooling of interest restriction, but we come free of that in the middle of this year.  And, obviously, we'll look to another program potentially after we've gotten past that period of time. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  And, Steve (ph), the businesses we consider strategic are those closest to the core of what we do best, what we enjoy doing, which is the discovery, development of new products that lead people to longer and happier lives.  Tetra (ph) didn't make that definition. You saw us make an announcement on that earlier this year.  And we will be reviewing this portfolio once we're free of the (inaudible) pooling of interest accounting restrictions. 

 STEVE THAI (ph), MERRILL LYNCH:  Thanks. 

 OPERATOR:  Thank you. 

 Mara Goldstein (ph), you may ask your question, and please state your company name. 

 MARA GOLDSTEIN (ph), CIBC WORLD MARKETS:  Yes, this is Mara Goldstein (ph) with CIBC World Markets (ph). 

 I'm wondering if you could just highlight for us where the impact of the Pfizer share card program came into the P&L. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  That's a good question for Peter Branch (ph), who heads up the financial (inaudible) within our pharmaceutical business.  Just a minute, we have to move a microphone here (inaudible). 

 PETER BRANCH (ph):  The number of the expenses associated with the share card would be in SI&A (ph).  There are charges associated with the promotional materials, as I'm sure you're well aware.  We have engaged in a very aggressive outreach program to bring as many people that qualify for the program into the benefits of the program as possible. 

 So there are a number of promotional activities at a very local level that are hitting in our SI&A (ph) line. 

 MARA GOLDSTEIN (ph):  OK.  And in terms of - can you net that against the fee that you charge for the card? 

 PETER BRANCH (ph):  Now we're getting into kind of the complexities of not only the fee, but the flow of that money that comes back in. There is (inaudible) administrative fee again in the SI&A (ph) part of our P&L. 

 MARA GOLDSTEIN (ph):  OK, thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  It might help you in thinking about this to realize that there's two sorts of costs to this program.  One is the cost of enrolling patients and distributing drug and the cost of drug, which does exceed the $15 fee.  We do lose a small amount on each prescription, but it is a small amount. 

 MARA GOLDSTEIN (ph):  Right. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Those costs appear on the SI&A (ph) line.  The other sort of cost to these programs are displacing product you would otherwise shell.  In the case of this population, those Medicare eligible between 100 percent and 200 percent of poverty, that is a very small percentage of this population.  This population is 15 times less likely to take prescription pharmaceuticals than those with insurance coverage, for example. 

 So the cost of that would turn up in lost revenue, but it's a very small number for this population. 

 MARA GOLDSTEIN (ph):  OK, thank you. 

 OPERATOR:  Thank you. 

 Robert Haslick (ph), you may ask your question, and please state your company name. 

 ROBERT HASLICK (ph), ROBERTSON STEPHENS:  Thanks.  This is Bert Haslick (ph) from Robertson Stephens. 

 Can you give us an understanding of how the recent label change for Vioxx changes the relative positioning for Celebrex and Bextra (ph), if it does at all?  And just a quick update of any manufacturing issues you might have with FDA and any progress that's been made there one way or another - thanks. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Ed Kelly (ph), on the label changes. 

 PAT KELLY (ph):  The label change that Art (ph) just received on Vioxx, we believe represents our validation of the COX-2 (ph) specific inhibition notion, which is that it is possible to deliver relief from pain and inflammation associated arthritis with a greater GI (ph) safety profile, if you are able to be more specifically active (ph) and inhibitory towards the COX-2 (ph) enzyme.  And we would. argue that the FDA's labeling of Vioxx at this point, in that regard, reconfirms what we and they have been saying all along, which is that there is a substantial safety benefit to the COX-2 (ph) inhibitors, inclusive of Celebrex and, in fact, Bextra (ph). 

 We continue to work with the FDA in our labeling of Celebrex relative to the gastrointestinal profile.  But we are able to continually reconfirm that Celebrex - as it has been in the marketplace -continues to show substantial benefit over older (inaudible), both in GI (ph) tolerability, as well as in terms of effectiveness.  We'd also note that unlike others, we have not been asked to re-label either Celebrex or Bextra (ph) in terms of any concerns relative to cardiovascular effects. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  On manufacturing issues with the FDA, you should realize that we are able to track 483 (ph) observations - inspection violations observations - and for a decade (ph) more, Pfizer has been at the very bottom of the industry in terms of numbers of 483s (ph). And, in fact, in our 150-year history, we have never received a warning letter until earlier this year, when we received a number of 483 (ph) observations related to a very small plant we have in Terre Haute, Indiana that makes injectable (ph) penicillin's.  We've corrected the deficiencies.  Some, in fact, were corrected - most were - while the inspector was in the plant.  A re-review of that plant is scheduled for later this month and we expect to be clear of any 483 (ph) observations in this plant by the end of this month. 

 ROBERT HASLICK (ph):  Thank you. 

 OPERATOR:  Thank you. 

 Carl Siden (ph), you may ask your question, and please state your company name. 

 CARL SIDEN (ph), J.P. MORGAN:  Thanks, I'm with J.P. Morgan. 

 One quick follow-up question on the prior question about the label change for Vioxx and what it means for you guys.  Specifically, on the new cardiovascular information that's on the Vioxx label, is that something that will change your detailing for Celebrex and Bextra (ph)? I mean, you have talked about your interest in making it clear to prescribers that the cardiovascular issues, both in terms of hypertension and a higher rate of heart attacks and stroke seen with Vioxx has not been seen with Celebrex.  I mean, is this meaningful new information or ammunition for you to make that claim, is question number one. 

 And, separately, I guess the period from when Bextra (ph) was made available until you had the full launch just recently, what was described to us was an early experience trial of sorts.  Can you tell us what the objectives were for that, how it went and what you learned in that period on Bextra (ph)?  Thanks a lot. 

 KAREN KATEN:  I'll take the first question - this is Karen Katen (ph). 

 It will not effect our promotional message to doctors on Celebrex and Bextra (ph).  The (inaudible) change labeling for Vioxx will presumably effect their promotional message, because in providing balance, they will have to discuss the cardiovascular risks associated with using that product.  So our message will stay the same and their will undoubtedly change. 

 And (inaudible) will take the question on... 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Our early experience with Bextra (ph), as you correctly noted, the product was released to trade in February.  And then we just last week completed the release to our Pharmacia and Pfizer field forces.  In between that time, we had a significant experience program with tens of thousands of doctors in the United States, and I can tell you the results that we received from that come in both physician, as well as in patient reaction. 

 Physicians almost uniformly and unanimously reported that they would prescribe Bextra (ph) once it was made available to their pharmacies. We had tremendous feedback from physicians, ranging from primary care physicians to specialists, such as rheumatologists.  Even more impressive, was that in the patient feedback forms that we had in the same experience program, 96 percent of patients that received Bextra (ph) in the early experience program reported that they were satisfied, and more importantly, were interested in getting a new or refilled prescription of the product. 

 That was what has given us our optimism for the fact that we think Bextra (ph) will have enormous impact in the arthritis marketplace. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  So just to summarize all of that, your question on cardiovascular risk in the Vioxx label is not new, but it is meaningful. 

 CARL SIDEN (ph):  OK, thank you. 

 OPERATOR:   Thank you. 

 (inaudible), you may ask your question, and please state your company name. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Yes, (inaudible), Global Investors (ph). 

 I just have a few questions on a couple of late stage pipeline projects.  You mentioned Derefenicin (ph) before.  I would have though that would have been filed by now.  Is that a near-term event, or is there anything holding that up? 

 Then on Pegaclone (ph), what is the earliest we could see the phase III (ph) data on that drug?  And then a final on Pregabilin (ph), are the safety studies you are doing complete?  Thanks. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Peter Clark (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED (ph):  OK. 

 First, Derefenicin (ph), we are on track for labeling - for submitting in the mid year of 2002.  We will be meeting with the agency in May to discuss the pre MDA (ph) meeting and filing.  So that's on track. 

 Pegaclone (ph), we're looking at studies in general anxiety disorders. Again, the full phase not yet underway.  We're still looking at some phase II (ph) studies in terms of dosing.  So our plan with Pegaclone (ph), I wouldn't like to predict an MDA (ph) filing date on Pegaclone (ph). 

 For Pregabilin (ph), and - for Pregabilin (ph), we are filing for in the fourth quarter of 2002 - for three indications for neuropathic pain, for add-on (ph) epilepsy and for general anxiety disorders, and that's on track in both U.S. and Europe. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  And the safety studies with Pregabilin (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED (ph):  And the safety studies with Pregabilin (ph), those studies will be finishing the in life (ph) portion this month.  Then the histology and so on will be completed.  We will have final reports in July.  We'll be meeting with the agency and then submitting thereafter in 2002. 

 OPERATOR:  Thank you. 

 Rick Silver (ph), you may ask your question, and please state your company name. 

 RICK SILVER (ph):  (inaudible). 

 Could you elaborate on the status of Exubera (ph) and what the nature of your filing plans are? 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Peter Clark (ph). 

 UNIDENTIFIED (ph):  Rick (ph), where we are presently - as you know, we're very pleased with the efficacy that we've seen in both Type I (ph) diabetics, as well Type II (ph).  We are assessing all of the data from the one year safety extension studies in Europe, and we have begun additional long-term safety studies. 

 Going forward, what we will do is define the best filing strategy during 2002.  Our decision really within 2002 will be based on that data.  What is the most optimal filing date for actually achieving the earliest final approval and the launch of Exubera (ph). 

 RICK SILVER (ph):  Earlier this year in talking with Hank (ph) and Karen (ph), they said an Exubera (ph) filing is a matter of when, not if.  Is that still an operative thought? 

 UNIDENTIFIED (ph)::  Absolutely.  I would agree completely with that. It's when, not if. 

 We wouldn't be starting long-term safety studies in addition that are going on both in U.S. and Europe if we didn't, and our partner (inaudible), didn't completely support this product. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thank you for that question, Rick (ph). 

 With that question, we conclude today's conference call.  Thank you all for being with us. 

 COPYRIGHT 2002 BY FDCH-eMedia, Inc. NO PORTION OF THIS TRANSCRIPTION MAY BE COPIED, SOLD OR RETRANSMITTED WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN AUTHORITY OF FDCH-eMedia, Inc. 

   CO
pfiz : Pfizer Inc
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i2576 : Cardiovascular Drugs
   NS
c23 : Research/Development | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4h00369
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=pfizer not hd=event and co=pfe
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
50
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 9:06 AM GMT
  
